# Modules and Functions

## Setup

```elixir
require Integer
```

## Overview

You're about to unleash the full power and potential of programming.

Data structures and operators are fundamental for providing instructions 
to the computer, but you're limited in how repeatable and reusable those
instructions can be.

For example, if you want to determine if many numbers are even, you need to reimplement that behavior repeatedly.

Reusing repeatable instructions makes programming far more powerful. 
Each solved problem acts as a building block for the next.

### Abstractions

To abstract in our context means to reduce complexity by hiding implementation details.

You work with abstractions all the time. For example, it was mechanical and complex when you first learned to walk. Now you move without even thinking about it.

Any machine you operate is an abstraction. Do you drive? You've probably
never needed to think about the complex machinery triggered by turning a wheel. How about typing? That's right. Your keyboard is an abstraction for the complex electrical signals required to communicate with your computer.

Human beings have limited brains, so we deal with complexity by creating abstractions.

### Breaking Down Problems

In programming, we rely on abstractions in much the same way. We figure out how to solve small 
problems, and then we reuse those small abstractions to solve more significant challenges.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    M1 --- M2
    subgraph Large Problem
      subgraph M1[Medium Problem]
        direction LR
        A[small problem] --- B[small problem]
        B --- C[small problem]
      end
      subgraph M2[Medium Problem]
        direction LR
        D[small problem] --- E[small problem]
        E --- F[small problem]
      end
    end
```

### How do we Build Abstractions?

**Modules** and **functions** are the primary tools
we have to create abstractions and repeat behavior.

In total this lesson will cover:

* How to abstract away implementation details with **functions**.
* How to create **multi-parameter functions** accept multiple inputs.
* An alternative **shorthand syntax** for functions.
* How we can use **first-class functions** as values in **higher-order functions**
* How to group functions in a **module**.
* **Private** and **public** functions in a module.
* Using **module attributes** to create reusable constant valuse between module functions.
* How to achieve **polymorphism** with **multiple function clauses**.
* How to compose functions together using the **pipe operator**.
* Validating function input with **guards**.

## Functions

Elixir is a Functional programming language. So you can imagine that Functions must be important. But what is a function?

### Input and Output (IO)

A function is a set of repeatable instructions. A function accepts some **input**, and returns
some **output**.

```mermaid
  flowchart LR
    Input --> Output
```

### Black Box

How the function converts some input to some output is often referred to as a **black box**.
It's a black box because you don't need to know (or can't know) the details of how it works.

```mermaid
  flowchart LR
    Input --> B[Black Box]
    B --> Output
```

### Creating a Function

Let's create a function called `double` which will take in a number and
double its value.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  A[Input `2`] --> B[BlackBox `double`]
  B --> C[Output `4`]
```

Now, let's create our first function. At first, it's going to do nothing.
A function must have an output. We can return `nil` for now.

```elixir
double = fn -> nil end
```

You may see some weird-looking output like `#Function<45.65746770/0 in :erl_eval.expr/5>`.
Don't worry too much about that. It's how Elixir represents a function internally.

### Parts of a Function

Let's break down what we did above.

1. `double` is a variable name. Often you'll refer to it as the **function name**. 
   It can be any valid variable name.

2. We assign `double` to an **anonymous function**.
   The anonymous function is everything from the `fn` to the `end`.

   ```mermaid
   flowchart LR
    A[function name] --> B[=]
    B --> C[anonymous function]
   ```

3. Elixir uses the `fn` keyword to start defining a function.

4. The next value `->` separates the **function head** and the **function body**.

5. The **function head** describes the input of the function. In this example it's empty.

6. The **function body** contains the function's implementation or **black box** . In this example, it returns `nil`.

7. Elixir uses the `end` keyword to end the defining a function.

<!--  -->

```mermaid
flowchart LR
   direction LR
   a[function name] --> B
   b[function head] --> A
   b[function head] --> B
   c[function body] --> C
   subgraph a[Breaking Down A Function]
      direction LR
      A[fn] ---- B
      B[->] --- C
      C[nil] --- D
      D[end]
   end
```

### Calling a Function

Our `double` function doesn't do much at this point, but let's see the **output** that it returns.

We use the `.()` syntax in Elixir to get the function's output. We often say we are **executing** or **calling** a function.

```elixir
double.()
```

`double` should return `nil` because so far that's all we've told it to do. However, we want
it to multiply a number by `2`.

In order to do that, we need to make the function to accept some input. To do this,
we define a **parameter** in the function like so.

```elixir
double = fn parameter -> nil end
```

You'll notice a warning above. That's because Elixir is being smart and letting us know that we've
created a parameter, but we're not actually using it. In Elixir, if you want to have an unused variable
without the warning, you can mark it with an underscore `_`

```elixir
double = fn _parameter -> nil end
```

No more warning 😀 But we actually want to use that parameter, so let's 
modify the function to return the parameter instead.

```elixir
double = fn parameter -> parameter end
```

The parameter is named parameter here for sake of example. But it works a lot like a variable and it can be named anything.
Let's rename it to `number` to be more clear since we expect the function will be called with
an integer or float.

```elixir
double = fn number -> number end
```

Now the function head takes in a value. This means that when we call it, we have to pass it
an **argument**. An argument is a value that will be assigned to the parameter when the function 
executes. We'll give it the integer `2`.

```elixir
double.(2)
```

Under the hood when the function runs, the parameter is assigned the value of the argument.

Step by step that would look like this.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
double = fn number -> number end
double.(2)
fn 2 -> 2 end
2
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

Notice that if you try to call the function without an argument, the function fails now because
it expects an argument. Not all languages do that, but Elixir is pretty smart 😎

```elixir
is_even.()
```

Great, now all that's left to multiply the parameter by `2`. You should be familiar with 
this from the previous sections.

```elixir
double = fn number -> number * 2 end
```

And you can use it to double any number.

```elixir
double.(10)
```

```elixir
double.(11)
```

```elixir
double.(10 ** 2 - 1)
```

### Implied Return Values

Some languages allow you to specifically specify the return value of the function.
However, in Elixir the output of a function is always the last line. So far you've only seen one-line 
functions, so here's an example of a multi-line function. Notice that the return value is `first` + `second` which equals `3`.

```elixir
multiline_function = fn ->
  first = 1
  second = 2
  first + second
end

multiline_function.()
```

## Multi-Parameter Functions

Functions can accept multiple inputs. Separate parameters with commas `,` to create a multi-parameter function.

Let's say you're creating a function `calculate_force` which will take in `mass` and
`acceleration`. (remember that force = mass * acceleration)

Let's start with the `double` function and see how we could convert it into a `calculate_force` function.

```elixir
double = fn number -> number * 2 end
```

First, let's rename `double` to `calculate_force` and rename `number` to `mass`. That gets us
most of the way there!

```elixir
calculate_force = fn mass -> mass * 2 end
```

Technically, we've got a function that calculates the force of an object with a given mass and
an acceleration of 2.

However, we want it to be truly reusable, so we need to figure out how to replace 2 with another
parameter. You can declare a function that accepts multiple parameters by separating them with a 
comma `,` the same way you do in a list or tuple.

```elixir
calculate_force = fn mass, acceleration -> mass * acceleration end
```

That should be working! Now you can call the function by passing in two arguments the same way.

```elixir
calculate_force.(10, 2)
```

Keep in mind that the first argument will be the value of the first parameter, and the second argument
will be the value of the second parameter. You can repeat this with as many parameters as you want!

```elixir
example = fn a, b, c, d, e -> [a, b, c, d, e] end

example.(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
```

But usually you want to avoid having too many parameters because it makes your function hard
to understand.

A paramater can be assigned to any valid data type, so you could instead use associative data
structure like a map or keyword list.

```elixir
is_even = nil
```

## Shorthand Syntax

Anonymous functions can be defined using a shorthand syntax. It is only an alternative and shorter
version to define a function. You will sometimes see shorthand syntax, so it's useful to be able to read it.
However, it should not be over-used otherwise you program may be less clear.

With the shorthand syntax, you can still assign the anonymous function to a variable.
However, you define the function with `&()` and put the function body between the brackets.

Here's the same `double` function for example.

```elixir
double = &(&1 * 2)
double.(5)
```

`&1` means the first parameter. If the function had more parameters you could access them with `&2`, `&3`, and so on.

```elixir
add_two = &(&1 + &2)
add_two.(2, 3)
```

### Function Arity

The number of parameters your function accepts is called the `arity` of the function.

A function with no parameters has an arity of zero. A function with one parameter has
an arity of one, and so on.

You refer to the function as `function_name/arity` thus a function named `add_two` with two parameters
is called `add_two/2`.

## First-class Functions

Functions in Elixir are [first-class citizens](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-class_citizen).

For our purposes, this means that functions can be assigned to variables, stored in other data types, and 
used as arguments to other functions.

If a function takes in another function as a parameter, it's often called a **higher-order function**.

For example, we could make a function named `call_twice` which calls a function on a value twice.

```elixir
call_twice = fn function, parameter -> function.(function.(parameter)) end
```

We'll use our `double` function and create a quadruple result.

```elixir
double = fn number -> number * 2 end

call_twice.(double, 3)
```

We don't need to assign the passed function to a variable first. We can actually pass 
in the anonymous function directly.

```elixir
call_twice.(fn number -> number * 2 end, 5)
```

Whenever you pass a function into a higher-order function with the 
expectation that the higher-order function is going to call it, the passed function is
referred to as a **callback function**.

## Pipe Operator

To create larger behavior, you'll often compose smaller functions together. This reflects the 
nature of problem solving where we take large problems and break them down into smaller ones.

To help compose functions together, Elixir provides the pipe `|>` operator.
That's the `|` symbol likely above your enter key, and the greater than `>` symbol side by side to make `|>`.

The pipe operator allows you to take the output of one function and pass it in as an argument
for the input of another function.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  A[Input] --> B[Function1] 
  B --> C[Pipe]
  C --> D[Function2]
  D --> E[Output]
```

Why is this useful? Without the pipe operator you can wind up writing deeply nested function calls.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
four.(three.(two.(one.())))
```

But with the pipe operator, you can chain functions together.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
one.() |> two.() |> three.() |> four.()
```

If a function is called with multiple arguments, the function piped in will be the first argument.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
two(1, 2) # how the function is normally called.

one.() |> two.(2)
```

You can also pass in a value to a pipe.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
1 |> two.()
```

The pipe operator doesn't change the behavior of a program. Instead, the pipe operator
exists as syntax sugar to improve the clarity of your code.

```elixir
add_grapes = fn shopping_list -> shopping_list ++ ["grapes"] end
add_pizza = fn shopping_list -> shopping_list ++ ["pizza"] end
add_blueberries = fn shopping_list -> shopping_list ++ ["blueberries"] end

[]
|> add_grapes.()
|> add_pizza.()
|> add_blueberries.()
|> add_pizza.()
|> add_blueberries.()

# vs the alternative
add_blueberries.(add_pizza.(add_blueberries.(add_pizza.(add_grapes.([])))))
```

## Modules

Functions are amazing, but as you create more and more functions, it becomes necessary to organize them
together. That's just one of the many reasons to use a **module**. A module is more or less a "bag of functions".

Here's what an empty module looks like.

```elixir
defmodule Hello do
end
```

Again, don't worry about the somewhat strange looking return value. 
`{:module, Hello, <<70, 79, 82, 49, 0, 0, 4, ...>>, nil}` That's how Elixir represents 
modules internally.

Let's break down what this all means.

1. `defmodule` a keyword that means "define module".
2. `Greeter` is the name of this module. It can be any valid name, and is usually **CapitalCase**.
   you'll often heard the name of the module refered to as the **namespace** that functions are organized under.
3. `do` a keyword that separates the module name and it's internal implementation.
4. `end` a keyword that finishes the module definition.

Modules define functions inside of them. Each function has a name, so they are called **named functions**.
You can define functions inside of a module using a slightly different syntax than anonymous functions.

```elixir
defmodule Greeter do
  def hello do
    "hello world"
  end
end
```

Let's break down the above named function.

1. `def` this means "define function"
2. `do` a keyword that separates the function head and the function body.
3. `"hello world"` this is the function body. This function returns the string "hello world"
4. `end` a keyword that ends the function definition.

### Calling a Named Function

To call a function inside of a module, you use the name of the module followed by a dot `.` then the
name of the function. You then call it with round brackets `()` with arguments if it has any.

```elixir
Greeter.hello()
```

### Named Functions with parameters

You can create multiple functions in a module, so let's a another function that greets people.
We'll call this function `hi` and it will accept one parameter called `name`. 
It will then return `hi <name>`.

```elixir
defmodule Greeter do
  def hello do
    "hello world"
  end

  def hi(name) do
    "hi #{name}"
  end
end
```

You call the named function in the module by passing it an argument.

```elixir
Greeter.hi("Brooklin")
```

## Internal Module Functions

A module can use it's own functions.

```elixir
defmodule InspectorGadget do
  def gogo(gadget) do
    "Go go gadget #{gadget}!"
  end

  def necktie do
    InspectorGadget.gogo("Necktie")
  end
end

InspectorGadget.necktie()
```

However, you can omit the module name. notice `gogo` instead of `InspectorGadget.gogo`

```elixir
defmodule InspectorGadget do
  def gogo(gadget) do
    "Go go gadget #{gadget}!"
  end

  def necktie do
    gogo("Necktie")
  end
end

InspectorGadget.necktie()
```

## Private Functions

Modules can access other module functions.

```elixir
defmodule Speaker do
  def speak() do
    "hi there"
  end
end

defmodule Listener do
  def listen() do
    "I heard you say: " <> Speaker.speak()
  end
end

Listener.listen()
```

However, sometimes it's important that a module keep a function private for internal use only. Why?
Well it may be for security reasons, or because you don't think it's a useful function to expose. 
Often it communicates to other developers how to use your module.

You can create a private module function with `defp` instead of `def`. You'll notice that below the 
`Speaker.think/0` function is undefined to the outside world.

```elixir
defmodule Speaker do
  defp think() do
    "hi there"
  end
end

Speaker.think()
```

Private functions can be used internally, which means that public functions could expose their values.

```elixir
defmodule Speaker do
  defp think() do
    "hi there"
  end

  def speak() do
    think()
  end
end

Speaker.speak()
```

## Module Attributes

What if you have many functions in a module that all use the same value? You've already learned
that repeating the same hard coded value over and over again isn't very reusable, and you've
used variables to pass the same value around in your code. However, that's not possible in a module.

Modules and functions in a module close themselves to the outside world. we call this `scope`.
Modules, functions, and many other similar constructs in Elixir are `lexically scoped`.

That means that variables defined in one scope cannot be accessed in another scope.

```mermaid
  flowchart
    subgraph Top Level Scope
      A[top level variable]
      subgraph Module Scope
        B[module variable]
        subgraph Function Scope
          C[function variable]
        end
      end
    end
```

Notice how the following example has an error because we cannot access the variable 
`top_level_scope`

```elixir
top_level_scope = 1

defmodule MyModule do
  def my_function do
    top_level_scope
  end
end
```

The same is true for the module scope.

```elixir
defmodule MyModule do
  module_scope = 2

  def my_function do
    module_scope
  end
end
```

To get around this, Elixir allows you to store constant values as module attributes 
using the `@module_attribute value` syntax. You can then access the `@module_attribue` value in 
any module function.

```mermaid
flowchart
  direction TB
  subgraph A[Top Level Scope]
    a[Top Level Variable] --- b
    direction TB
    subgraph B[Module Level Scope]
      b[Define Module Attribute] --- c
      subgraph C[Function Level Scope]
        c[Access Module Attribute]
      end
    end
  end
```

Notice that we're able to use a module attribute inside of the module's function now.

```elixir
defmodule MyModule do
  @my_attribute "any valid data type"
  def my_function do
    @my_attribute
  end
end

MyModule.my_function()
```

We can also access a variable in the top-level-scope now so long as we set a module attribute.

```elixir
top_level_variable = 1

defmodule MyModule do
  @my_attribute top_level_variable
  def my_function do
    @my_attribute
  end
end

MyModule.my_function()
```

Now we can easily share constant values between mutliple module functions.

```elixir
defmodule Hero do
  @name "Batman"
  @nemesis "Joker"

  def catchphrase do
    "I am #{@name}."
  end

  def victory do
    "I #{@name} will defeat you #{@nemesis}!"
  end
end

Hero.victory()
```

If the module attribute value changes, you would only need to change the module attribute.

```elixir
defmodule Hero do
  @name "IronMan"
  @nemesis "Mandarin"

  def catchphrase do
    "I am #{@name}."
  end

  def victory do
    "I #{@name} will defeat you #{@nemesis}!"
  end
end

Hero.victory()
```

## Multiple Function Clauses

Elixir allows us to define multiple functions with the same name, but that expect different parameters.
This means the function has multiple function clauses.
For example, we can take our `hi` function and create a new version that says hi to two people.

```elixir
defmodule Greeter do
  def hi(name1, name2) do
    "hi #{name1}, hi #{name2}"
  end

  def hi(name) do
    "hi #{name}"
  end
end

Greeter.hi("Peter Parker", "Mary Jane")
```

In the example above, each function has a different **arity**. You can treat each function with
a different arity as a different function. In fact, we often refer to each function by their arity
as function/arity.

So the `Greeter` module has a  `hi/1` (hi one) function and `hi/2` (hi two) function.

## Polymorphism

The word polymorphism comes from the Greek word for "many shapes".
It means essentially the same thing for our programs.
We often want to define a single general behavior, but apply it to different things.

In the example above, we use multiple function clauses to achieve polymophism using the same
generic `hi` function to say hi to one person, or two people. Earlier, we also achieved polymorphism 
with the `call_twice` function, which abstracts a generic repeatable behavior, but does not
care about the specific function that it's calling twice.

```mermaid
  flowchart
    A[Polymorphic Behavior] --- B[Specific Implementation]
    A --- C[Specific Implementation]
    A --- D[Specific Implementation]
    A --- E[Specific Implementation]
    A --- F[Specific Implementation]
```

Running is a great real-world example of polymorphism. There are many different animals that run,
and they all run in different ways.

```mermaid
  flowchart
    A[Run] --- B[Cheetahs]
    A --- C[Cats]
    A --- D[Dogs]
    A --- E[Horses]
    A --- F[Humans]
```

## Default Arguments

You can provide default arguments to functions using the `//` syntax after the paramenter
 and then the default value.

```elixir
defmodule Greeter do
  def greet(name, greeting \\ "Hello") do
    "#{greeting} #{name}!"
  end
end

Greeter.greet("Peter")
```

Then if desired you can override the default value.

```elixir
defmodule Greeter do
  def greet(name, greeting \\ "Hello") do
    "#{greeting} #{name}!"
  end
end

Greeter.greet("Peter", "Hi")
```

Multiple parameters can have default values.

```elixir
defmodule Greeter do
  def greet(name \\ "Peter", greeting \\ "Hello") do
    "#{greeting} #{name}!"
  end
end

Greeter.greet()
```

However, you can even have a default for the first of multiple parameters. Elixir
is smart enough to handle that!

```elixir
defmodule Greeter do
  def greet(name \\ "Peter", greeting) do
    "#{greeting} #{name}!"
  end
end

Greeter.greet("HI")
```

## Guards

It's often useful to validate that a module function is called with the correct arguments.
Elixir provides `Guards` which allow you to validate the parameters.

For example, let's say we have a `Multiplier` module which handles doubling numbers.

```elixir
defmodule Multiplier do
  def double(num1) do
    num1 * 2
  end
end

Multiplier.double(4)
```

You'll notice, that we can pass in strings to the `Mutliplier.double/1` function and the program will error. 
However, to an outside user that error is not very helpful.

```elixir
defmodule Multiplier do
  def double(num1) do
    num1 * 2
  end
end

Multiplier.double("")
```

To enforce the function is only called with integers, we can use the built-in `is_integer` guard 
and the `when` guard operator.

Now when you call the `double/1` function, it will let you know that the function does not exist
for string arguments.

```elixir
defmodule Multiplier do
  def double(value) when is_integer(value) do
    value * 2
  end
end

Multiplier.double("")
```

But what if you wanted to handle doubling strings? You can also use guards to create multiple function
clauses. In this case, when we call `double/1` with a string `"example"` we want it two return double
the string so `"exampleexample"`.

We can use the built-in `is_bitstring` guard to check if the variable is a string.

```elixir
defmodule Multiplier do
  def double(num) when is_integer(num) do
    num * 2
  end

  def double(string) when is_bitstring(string) do
    string <> string
  end
end

Multiplier.double("example")
```

There are many guards available in Elixir. If you ever need a specific guard you can refer to the
[Guards](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/1.13/Kernel.html#guards) documentation

It's also useful to know that the order of function clauses does matter. So let's say you remove
the `is_integer/1` guard. Now the first function expects any type of input, so it will always
execute instead of the `is_bitstring/1` version.

```elixir
defmodule Multiplier do
  def double(num) do
    num * 2
  end

  def double(string) when is_bitstring(string) do
    string <> string
  end
end

Multiplier.double("example")
```

You'll notice our program crashes with an error, and we also get a warning 
**this clause for double/1 cannot match because a previous clause at line 2 always matches**

However, if you move the more generic function below, then strings will run through the
`is_bitstring` version first.

**Floats** now work as well! because previously they failed the `is_integer` guard.

```elixir
defmodule Multiplier do
  def double(string) when is_bitstring(string) do
    string <> string
  end

  def double(num) do
    num * 2
  end
end

Multiplier.double("example")
```

```elixir
Multiplier.double(1)
```

```elixir
Multiplier.double(2.5)
```
