# Comments

## Comments

You can create inline comments in your code in Elixir using `#`. Anything after the `#` on the same line will be part of the comment

```elixir
# You can use comments to leave messages in your code.
```

It's sometimes handly for documenting what your code does. However, it's often better to use comments sparingly.
Leaving a comment often means that there's something in your code that didn't explain itself.

In these moments you might find it useful to consider how you can improve your code to be self documenting rather than leaving
a comment in unclear code. There are better forms of documentation that you'll learn about in future lessons.

Sometimes it's handy to use comments to temporarily remove pieces of code and save them for later.
However, it's often bad practice to leave these commented pieces of code in an actual codebase. You're also likely to
encounter codebases that leave thousands of TODO comments everywhere. TODO comments can be useful, but when abused they
are worse than no comment at all!

```elixir
# TODO - Build Functionality
```

Depending on your code editor, You can comment out many lines of code at once. Highlight the code you want to comment
then press the correct keybinding. The binding will be different depending on your editor and if you are using Mac or Windows.
In Livebook, it's likely `CTRL-/` or `COMMAND-/` but you can double check in the keyboard shortcuts tab.

Click on the keyboard icon in the left sidebar of this page to see all of the keyboard shortcuts.

## Exercise

In the Elixir cell below, create a comment `# hello world`

```elixir

```

In the Elixir cell below, comment all of the code out using the **Toggle lines comment** keyboard shortcut.

```elixir
1 + 1
2 + 3
3 + 1 + 2
123 + 12 + 256
```
