# Benchmarks

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"},
  {:benchee, "~> 1.1"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Setup

Ensure you type the `ea` keyboard shortcut to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Overview

In this set of exercises, you're going to use [Benchee](https://github.com/bencheeorg/benchee) to benchmark
common operations.

You can also provide multiple inputs with Benchee like so:

```elixir
Benchee.run(
    %{
    "length of list": fn input -> length(input) end
},
inputs: %{
    "Small": Enum.to_list(1..1000),
    "Medium": Enum.to_list(1..10_000),
    "Large": Enum.to_list(1..100_000),
}
)
```

If you want to use different input for each function, you could separate the input into some data structure.

```elixir
large_list = Enum.to_list(1..1000)
large_tuple = List.to_tuple(large_list)

Benchee.run(
    %{
    "length of list": fn {list, _tuple} -> length(list) end,
    "length of tuple": fn {_list, tuple} -> tuple_size(tuple) end
},
inputs: %{
    "Large": {large_list, large_tuple},
}
)
```

## Lists Vs Tuples

### Access

In the Elixir cell below, benchmark the following:

* Determine the length of a list
* Determine the length of a tuple
* Retrieve the first element in a list
* Retrieve the last element in a list
* Retrieve the first element in a tuple
* Retrieve the last element in a tuple

Ensure that you test these operations with `1000` elements, `10_000` elements, and `100_000` elements.

## Keyword Lists Vs Maps

In the Elixir cell below,

* Create a `small_map` variable with `1000` elements
* Create a `medium_map` variable with `10_000` elements
* Create a `large_map` variable with `100_000` elements
* Create a `small_keyword_list` variable with `1000` elements
* Create a `medium_keyword_list` variable with `10_000` elements
* Create a `large_keyword_list` variable with `100_000` elements

```elixir

```

In the Elixir cell below, benchmark the following:

* Update an element in the map.
* Update the first element in the keyword list.
* Update the last element in the keyword list

```elixir

```

In the Elixir cell below, benchmark the following:

* Insert a new element into a map.
* Insert a new element the start of a keyword list.
* Insert a new element the end of a keyword list.

```elixir

```

Ensure that you test these operations with `1000` elements, `10_000` elements, and `100_000` elements.

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-benchmarks
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish benchmarks exercise"
$ git push origin exercise-benchmarks
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.
