# Bomb Defusal

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Setup

Ensure you type the `ea` keyboard shortcut to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Bomb Defusal

We're going to create a bomb defusal game.

There will be multiple bombs that need to be defused. If any of the bombs go off the entire game will be reset.

A `BombSupervisor` will supervise three `Bomb`s. If any of the bombs detonate, every bomb detonates.

```mermaid
flowchart
  S[BombSupervisor]
  C1[Bomb]
  C2[Bomb]
  C3[Bomb]

  S --> C1
  S --> C2
  S --> C3
```

That means when a `Bomb` process dies, the `BombSupervisor` will restart every `Bomb` process.

## Create A New Mix Project

Using the command line, create a new supervised project in the `projects` folder called `bomb_defusal`.

```
mix new bomb_defusal --sup
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

Dialyzer, Credo, and ExDoc are optional for this project.

## Create the Bomb GenServer

Create a `Bomb` [GenServer](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/GenServer.html). It should start as a minimal [GenServer](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/GenServer.html) with no functionality.

## Configure the BombSupervisor

Configure the BombSupervisor to start in `application.ex`.
It should start with 3 `Bomb` [GenServer](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/GenServer.html)s as children.

## :explode

Send a `Bomb` an `:explode` message. It should handle the message by terminating.
The `BombSupervisor` should automatically restart all of the `Bomb` processes.

## (Bonus) :cut

We will defuse bombs by sending them a `:cut` message with a `:red`, `:white`, or `:black` wire.

When a `Bomb` is initialized, it should store a randomized wire of either `:red`, `:white`, or `:black` in
it's state as the correct wire to defuse the bomb.

If the wire from the `:cut` message is correct, defuse the bomb.

A defused bomb will no longer terminal when sent the `:explode` message.

## (Bonus) Timer

Add a `Timer` [GenServer](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/GenServer.html) under the `BombSupervisor` tree.

The `Timer` should store a `5` minute timer which decrements every second.

Every time a `:cut` message is sent to a bomb with an incorrect value, the `Timer` should decrement by `30` seconds.

When the `Timer` reaches `0` it should terminate the `BombSupervisor` which should automatically restart under
the application supervisor.

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-bomb_defusal
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish bomb defusal exercise"
$ git push origin exercise-bomb_defusal
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.
