# Bottles Of Soda

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)

## Bottles of Soda

In the Elixir cell below create a module `BottlesOfSoda` with a function `on_the_wall/0`.
See further instructions below, you should implement each step one by one on the `BottlesOfSoda` module

```elixir

```

### Step 1

`on_the_wall/0` should

* From 99 to 1 return a list with the string

```elixir
"
X bottles of soda on the wall.
X bottles of soda.
Take one down, pass it around.
X - 1 bottles of soda on the wall.
"
```

Where the `X` is the number of bottles of soda remaining.

### Step 2

* when X is 1, use the correct grammar:

```elixir
"
1 bottle of soda on the wall.
1 bottle of soda.
Take one down, pass it around.
0 bottles of soda on the wall.
"
```

### Step 3

* When X is 0, use the following phrase:

```elixir
"
No more bottles of soda on the wall, no more bottles of soda.
Go to the store and buy some more, 99 bottles of soda on the wall.
"
```

### Step 4

* Create an `on_the_wall/1` function which takes in a positive **integer** for the `number_of_bottles` of soda on the wall.
* From `number_of_bottles` to `0`, repeat the expected song lyrics.

### Step 5

* Allow the `on_the_wall/1` function to also accept a descending **range** to perform the rhyme from.
  i.e. `BottlesOfSoda.on_the_wall(99..50)`.

### Step 6

* Create an `on_the_wall/2` function which accepts an **integer** or a **range** for the first parameter.
* For the second parameter, the function should accept a "string" for the type of beverage.

For example `BottlesOfSoda.on_the_wall(99, "pop")` would start with:

```elixir
"
99 bottles of pop on the wall.
99 bottles of pop.
Take one down, pass it around.
98 bottles of pop on the wall.
"
```

### Step 7

* Create an `on_the_wall/3` function which accepts an **integer** or a **range** for the first parameter.
* For the second parameter, the function should accept a **string** for the type of beverage.
* For the third parameter, the function should accept a **string** for the beverage container.
* Ensure that `on_the_wall/3` function remains gramatically correct for `0` and `1` beverage container.

For example `BottlesOfSoda.on_the_wall(99, "pop", "can")` would start with:

```elixir
"
99 cans of pop on the wall.
99 cans of pop.
Take one down, pass it around.
98 cans of pop on the wall.
"
```
