# Candy Store

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Create A New Mix Project

Using the command line, create a new project in the `projects` folder called `candy_store`.

```
mix new candy_store
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

## Candy Store

In this exercise, you will build a candy store application which searches and filters candy products from existing products.
Each product should be a struct with a `:name`, `:cost`, and `:type`.

The `:name` will be a string. The `:cost` will be an integer (in cents). The `:type` will be an atom.

```mermaid
classDiagram
  Product {
    name: :string,
    cost: :integer,
    type: :atom
  }
```

## Create An Item Struct

Create a `CandyStore.Item` module in a `lib/item.ex` file.
It should be a struct with the `:name`, `:cost`, and `:type` fields.

`:name`, `:cost`, and `:type` should be enforced.

Create the following test cases for `CandyStore.Item`.

### Test the Item Struct

Create a `CandyStore.ItemTest` module in `tests/item_test.ex`.

Create the following test cases for the following:

* given a `:name`, `:cost`, and `:type` field it should create an Item struct.
* The Item struct should enforce the `:name` and `:type` fields.

## Create the CandyStore.search/2 Function

The `CandyStore.search/2` function should take a list of items, and the a search query to filter them by.
For example,

```elixir
items = [%Item{name: "AAA", type: :candy_bar, cost: 120}, %Item{name: "BBB", type: :candy_bar, cost: 120}, ]
query = %{name: "A", type: :candy_bar, cost: 120}
CandyStore.search(items, query)
%Item{name: "AAA", type: :candy_bar, cost: 120}
```

Create a `CandyStore.search/2` function and the following test cases:
(You may use any test names, so long as your tests cover the following functionality)

* given a list of items, when searching the full name of one item, then it should only find matching items.
* given a list of items, when searching the partial name of one item, then it should only find matching items.
* given a list of items, when searching the a non matching name, it should find no items.
* given a list of items, when searching by type, it should find matching items.
* given a list of items, when searching by a non-matching type, it should find no items.
* given a list of items, when searching by exact cost, it should find matching items.
* given a list of items, when searching by all filters (:type, :cost, and :name) it should find matching items.

Ensure all tests pass.

## (Bonus) Search By Price

Add the following functionality and cases to allow users to search by price:

* given a list of items, when searching by `:max_cost`, it should find items below the max cost.
* given a list of items, when searching by `:min_cost`, it should find items below the max cost.
* given a list of items, when searching by `:cost` with a range, it should find items within the range.

## (Bonus) Item Validation

Use `Ecto Changesets` validate the `Item` struct in an `Item.new/1` function.
`:name` must be a string.
`:type` must be an atom.
`:cost` must be an integer.

Then create the following test cases:

* `Item.new/1` should return a changeset error if `:name` is not a string.
* `Item.new/1` should return a changeset error if `:type` is not an atom.
* `Item.new/1` should return a changeset error if `:cost` is not a integer.
* `Item.new/1` should return a struct if `:name`, `:type`, and `:cost` are all valid.

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-candy_store
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish candy store exercise"
$ git push origin exercise-candy_store
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.
