# Cards

## Cards Module

In this exercise you're going to create a `Cards` module. Work through each step in
the Elixir cell at the bottom.

### Step 1: Deck

The `Cards` module should be able to create a deck with the `deck/0` function.

A deck should be a list of cards. A card should be represented with a string of the suite and number.
We'll use `11`, `12`, and `13` to represent Jack, Queen, and King so cards will be numbered from `1` to `13`.

We'll use `h` for hearts, `s` for spades, `c` for clubs, and `d` for diamonds.

That means a `deck` should be a list of cards with

* `"1h"` to `"13h"`
* `"1s"` to `"13s"`
* `"1c"` to `"13c"`
* `"1d"` to `"13d"`

## Step 2: Shuffle

Create a `shuffle/1` function which accepts the deck and returns the cards in a random order.

## Step 3: Deal

Create a `deal/3` function which deals cards to players.

* It should accept a deck, the number of cards to deal, and the number of players to deal to.
* It should return separate lists for each player, and the remaining deck.
* Cards should be dealt in order from the start of the deck to the end while rotating between each player's hand.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
Cards.deal(["1c", "2c", "3c", "4c", "5c", "6c", "7c"], 2, 3)
%{deck: ["7c"], dealt: [["1c", "4c"], ["2c", "5c"], ["3c", "6c"]]}
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

* if there are not enough cards, deal as many as you can and return empty or reduced lists for the other players.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
Cards.deal(["1c", "2c", "3c", "4c", "5c", "6c", "7c"], 3, 3)
%{deck: [], dealt: [["1c", "4c", "7c"], ["2c", "5c"], ["3c", "6c"]]}
```

## Step 4: Sort

create a `sort/1` function which accepts a list of cards and sorts them. cards should be 
sorted by suite in the order `h` -> `s` -> `c` -> `d`. then they should be sorted in chronological order
`1` -> `2` -> `...` -> `13`.

```elixir
cards.sort(["1c", "5d", "4c", "6d", "2c", "3c", "7d", "5s", "3h", "2h", "4s"], 3, 3)
["2h", "3h", "4s", "5s", "1c", "2c", "3c", "4c", "5d", "6d", "7d"]
```

## Your Solution

Enter your answer below:

```elixir
defmodule Cards do
end
```
