# Character Generator

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Setup

Ensure you type the `ea` keyboard shortcut to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Character Generator

You are building a text RPG game where players can create a character.
In the Elixir cell below,

* Create a `Character` struct
* `Character`s should have `health`, `class`, `description`, `name`, `level`, and `attack` fields.
* `health` should be a **float**.
* `class` should be an **atom** of either `:wizard`, `:warrior`, or `:ranger`.
* `name` should be a **string**.
* `description` should be a **string**.
* `level` should be an integer defaulted to `1`
* `attack` should be an integer defaulted to `5`

```elixir
defmodule Character do
end
```

## Character Validation

* Create a `Character.new/1` function which validates the parameters given to character.
* `level` should not be used to create a character, all characters start at `1`
* `attack` should not be used to create a character, all characters start at `5`
* `health` should not be used to create a character, wizards start with `10` health, rangers `15`, and warriors `20`.
* enforce that `class` one of the three correct atoms
* enforce that `name` is a string
* enforce that `description` is a string

```elixir

```

## Character Randomizer

* Create a `Character.randomize/1` function which accepts an existing `Character` struct and randomizes
  the `class`, `name`, and `description`.
* a **random** `class` should be one of `:wizard`, `:warrior`, and `:ranger`
* a **random** `name` should be a random `7` to `14` letter string of random alphabetical characters.
* a **random** `description` should be a random `100` to `200` letter string of random alphabetical characters.
* `attack` should be updated to match the random `class`.
* `level` and `attack` should be unchanged.

## Character Form

### Kino Inputs

In order to complete this exercise, you're going to use [Kino](https://hexdocs.pm/kino/Kino.html). Kino is a library specifically for
Livebook - the program you're using to run this course.

```elixir
text_input = Kino.Input.text("the label of your input")
```

Then you can access the value inside of the text input with `Kino.Input.read/1`

```elixir
text_input_value = Kino.Input.read(text_input)
```

You can also create select inputs with `Kino.Input.select`

```elixir
Kino.Input.select("Language", [{"key1", :value1}, {"key2", :value2}])
```

### Create A Character Form

In the Elixir cell below, Create a `name` input using `Kino.Input.text/1`

```elixir

```

Create a `description` input using `Kino.Input.text/1`

```elixir

```

Create a `class` input using `Kino.Input.select/1`. It should have `:wizard`, `:warrior`, and `:ranger` as options.

```elixir

```

In the Elixir cell below, use the inputs you defined above and `Kino.Input.read/1` to create
an instance of a `Character` struct i.e. `%Character{params}`.

```elixir

```

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-character_generator
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish character generator exercise"
$ git push origin exercise-character_generator
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.
