# Fun Formulas

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, github: "livebook-dev/kino", override: true},
  {:kino_lab, "~> 0.1.0-dev", github: "jonatanklosko/kino_lab"},
  {:vega_lite, "~> 0.1.3"},
  {:benchee, "~> 0.1"},
  {:ecto, "~> 3.7"},
  {:math, "~> 0.7.0"},
  {:faker, "~> 0.17.0"},
  {:utils, path: "utils"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)

## Setup

Ensure you run the `ea` command to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively,
you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Fun Formulas

As developer's it's our job to translate business requirements into something that the computer understands.

These exercises will have you convert a common formula into an Elixir program.

## Percentage

Let's say we're building a program with a loading bar.

Users download items, and you need to display the current percentage that the download has finished.

You can calculate the percentage with $\frac{completed\ items}{total\ items}\times100$

In the Elixir cell below, calculate the percentage given `completed_items` and `total_items`.

Replace `nil` with your answer.

```elixir
completed_items = 10
total_items = 100
percentage = nil

Utils.feedback(:percentage, [completed_items, total_items, percentage])
```

Given a random number of completed_items and total_items, calculate the percentage.

Replace `nil` with your answer.

```elixir
completed_items = Utils.random(1..100)
total_items = Utils.random(completed_items..100)

percentage = nil

Utils.feedback(:percentage_random, [completed_items, total_items, percentage])
```

## Rocket Ship

We're building a rocket ship app to teach people about physics.

Users can enter the `mass` and `acceleration` of a ship to visualize the `force` generated.

Given that ${mass} * {acceleration} = force$, calculate force. Replace `nil` with your answer.

```elixir
mass = 10
acceleration = 2

force = nil

Utils.feedback(:rocket_ship, force)
```

## What do you tip?

Let's build a program to determine how much you should tip your server when you buy a meal.

The formula for calculating a tip is $cost\ of\ the\ meal * tip\ rate = tip\ amount$ where `tip_rate` is the rate you
would like to tip as a decimal. so `15%` would be `0.15` and `20%` would be `0.2`.

In the Elixir cell below, Use floats to set the `cost_of_the_meal` to represent `$55.50` and the `tip_rate` to represent `20%`.
Then calculate the `tip_amount`.

Replace `nil` with your answers.

```elixir
cost_of_the_meal = nil
tip_rate = nil

tip_amount = nil

Utils.feedback(:tip_amount, [cost_of_the_meal, tip_rate, tip_amount])
```

## Pythagorean Theorum

To calculate the longest side of a triangle we use $a^2 + b^2 = c^2$

First, given `a` and `b`, calculate `c_square` where `c_square` is $c^2$.

```elixir
a = 10
b = 10

c_square = nil

Utils.feedback(:pythagorean_c_square, c_square)
```

### Bonus!

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

This is a bonus challenge that requires going beyond what you've already learned.

You need to figure out how to find the square root of a number in Elixir.

Given `c_square`, calculate `c`. Replace `nil` with your answer.

<details>
<summary>Hint</summary>
check out `:math.sqrt`
</details>

```elixir
c_square = 200

c = nil

Utils.feedback(:pythagorean_c, c)
```
