# Habit Tracker

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Setup

Ensure you type the `ea` keyboard shortcut to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Habit Tracker

You are going to build some logic for a habit tracking app. Habit tracking apps such as [Habitica](https://habitica.com/) help users develop healthy habits.

Each habit is assigned a size such as small, medium, or large. Each size is assigned a different point value. Users earn points based on the habits they complete.

* A large habit is worth 30 points
* A medium habit is worth 20 points
* A small habit is worth 5 points.

```mermaid
flowchart
  A["Large (30 points)"]
  B["Medium (20 points)"]
  C["Small (5 points)"]
```

## Bind Habit Variables

Bind a variable `small`, `medium`, and `large` to represent the point value as an integer (see above) for each habit. You will use these variables in further solutions.

<details style="background-color: lightgreen; padding: 1rem; margin: 1rem 0;">
<summary>Example solution</summary>

```elixir
large = 30
medium = 20
small = 5
```

</details>

Enter your solution below.

```elixir

```

## Small, Medium, Large

Given a user has completed one small habit, one medium habit, and one large habit, use arithmetic operators and your previously bound variables `small`, `medium`, and `large` to determine how many points they have in total.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  A["Large (30 points)"]
  B["Medium (20 points)"]
  C["Small (5 points)"]
  T[total?]
  A --+--> B
  B --+--> C
  C --+--> T
```

<details style="background-color: lightgreen; padding: 1rem; margin: 1rem 0;">
<summary>Example solution</summary>

```elixir
small + medium + large
```

</details>

Enter your answer in the code cell below.

```elixir

```

## Multiples

Given a user has completed **ten small** habits, **five medium** habits, and **three large** habits, use arithmetic operators to determine how many points they have in total.

<details style="background-color: lightgreen; padding: 1rem;">
<summary>Example solution</summary>

```elixir
small * 10 + medium * 5 + large * 3
```

</details>

Enter your answer below.

```elixir

```

## Progress Bar

Users define a a `goal` number of points to earn each day. Determine what percentage progress have they made if they would like to earn `40` points and have completed a `small` and a `medium` habit.

Remember that you can calculate percentage with $\frac{points}{goal} * 100$

<details style="background-color: lightgreen; padding: 1rem;">
<summary>Example solution</summary>

```elixir
goal = 40
(small + medium) / goal
```

Or you might consider binding `points` as a variable.


```elixir
goal = 40
points = small + medium 
points / goal
```

</details>

Enter your answer below.

```elixir

```

## Penalties and Rewards

To motivate users to complete their habits quickly, we add a time-limit feature where users will receive a `60%` point bonus if they complete their habit early, and a `50%` point penalty if they complete their habit late.

Determine the users total point score when they complete:

* three early small habits
* two normal medium habits
* two late large habits

<details style="background-color: lightgreen; padding: 1rem;">
<summary>Example solution</summary>

```elixir
goal = 40

small * 1.6 * 3 + medium * 2 + large * 2 * 0.5
```

</details>

Enter your answer below.

```elixir

```

## Bonus: Add Your Own Feature

Add your own feature to the habit tracking app. Use comments to describe your feature and show
how it would affect calculating the total score and/or the total percentage of completed habits.

```elixir

```

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-habit_tracker
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish habit tracker exercise"
$ git push origin exercise-habit_tracker
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.

## Up Next

| Previous                                           | Next                                     |
| -------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------: |
| [Card Counting](../exercises/card_counting.livemd) | [Mad Libs](../exercises/mad_libs.livemd) |
