# Journal CLI

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Setup

Ensure you type the `ea` keyboard shortcut to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Journal CLI

You're going to create a Command Line Interface Application, generally referred to as a CLI.
This CLI will automate the process of creating daily journals with a markdown template.

Once complete, you will run the following in the command line:

```
./journal
```

Which will generate a markdown file based on the current date `yyyy-mm-dd.md` with a journal template.

## Create A New Mix Project

Using the command line, create a new project in the `projects` folder called `journal`.

```
mix new journal
```

## Configure the Project For the Command Line

We want to be able to use the command line to execute this project.

Command line applications run the `main/1` function on a configured module.

First, add a `main/1` function to the `Journal` module in `journal.ex`. We're going to
leave it with a blank [IO.inspect/2](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/IO.html#inspect/2) for now.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
def main(args) do
  IO.inspect(args)
end
```

For a command line application, we need to tell Mix which module to run.
Configure the `:escript` option with the `:main_module`. Tell Mix to use the `Journal` module in `mix.exs`.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
def project do
  [
    app: :journal,
    version: "0.1.0",
    elixir: "~> 1.13",
    start_permanent: Mix.env() == :prod,
    deps: deps(),
    # Added this line
    escript: [main_module: Journal]
  ]
end
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

Under the hood, Elixir builds an executable file called an **escript**. This escript can be invoked from the command
line directly rather than using the IEx Shell.

Run the following in the command line from the project folder to build the executable file.
To pick up future changes, you will need to re-run this command.

```
mix escript.build
```

Execute the file with:

```
./journal
```

You should see it print an empty list. That's because we haven't passed in any arguments.

```
[]
```

Pass in arguments to see them in the list.

```
./journal argument1 argument2 --switch
["argument1", "argument2", "--switch"]
```

## Create A Daily Journal

With no arguments provided, the `./journal` command should create a markdown file `yyyy-mm-dd.md` in an `entries/` folder.

The files contents should be blank except for a title matching todays date.

```md
# yyyy-mm-dd
```

Implement the `Journal.main/1` function when given no arguments.
Once complete, run the following from the command line.

```
./journal
```

And ensure it generated a `entries/yyyy-mm-dd.md` file with the following content.

```
# yyyy-mm-dd
```

Where `yyyy-mm-dd` is the current date. i.e. `2022-05-25`.

## Add the --folder Switch

Command line applications use **switches** to alter functionality.
You've already used a switch whenever you make a git commit.

```
git commit -m "my example commit"
```

`-m` is just an alias for `message`. So you could also use:

```
git commit --message "my example commit".
```

So `--message` is a switch for the `git` cli.

You're going to create a `--folder` switch for our `journal` cli which will override the default `entries` folder.
For example, the following will create a new file in the `example_folder`.

```
./journal --folder example_folder
```

You can use the built-in [OptionParser](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/OptionParser.html) module to parse switches.
Specify the `:switches` in a keyword list with their values. For example, a `--folder` switch could be handled with:

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
# journal.ex
def main(args) do
  options = [switches: [folder: :string]]
  {opts, _, _} = OptionParser.parse(args, options)
  IO.inspect(opts)
end
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

Now `opts` for the following command would be: `[folder: "example"]`.

```
./journal --folder example_folder
```

Implement the `--folder` switch to store journal entries in a different folder.
Continue to use `test_entries` if the `--folder` switch is not provided.

## Add the --file Switch

Implement the `--file` switch, which should override the default file name.

So the following would create a new file `test.md`.

```
./journal --file test
```

## Add the --title Switch

Implement the `--title` switch, which should override the default file title.

So the following would create a new file `test.md`.

```
./journal --file test --title "My Title"
```

With the following content:

```md
# My Title
```

## Use the --template Switch

Test and implement the `--template` switch.

The template flag should allow users to use any custom template in a `templates` folder like so:

```
./journal --template bullet_journal
```

Where `templates/bullet_journal.md` is a markdown file with the following content:

```md
<!-- in templates/bullet_journal.md -->
# Bullet Journal
I am grateful for
-
-
-

Today I will
-
-
-
```

## (BONUS) Handle An Existing Daily Journal

Warn users if they already have a daily journal or a journal with the same name.
You can use [IO.puts/2](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/IO.html#puts/2) to print a message to the user.

```
$ ./journal
Error, daily journal already exists. Open test_entries/yyyy-mm-dd.md to see todays journal.
```

## (BONUS) Provide Custom Values in Templates

If a template defines some content in the format `{DATE}`,
replace that content with todays date.

If a template defines some content in the format `{TITLE}` replace that value
with the `--title` switch if it exists. If it does not exist, replace the `{TITLE}` with an empty string.

For example:

```md
# {TITLE}
Created on {DATE}
```

When provided `--title "My Title"` Would become:

```md
# My Title
Created on 2022-04-06
```

## (Bonus) Search Entries

Implement a `search` command you can use to find files who's file name contains the searched string.

```
./journal search "example"
/entries/example_file1.md
/entries/example_file2.md
```

You can use [IO.puts/2](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/IO.html#puts/2) to print information in the console.

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-journal_cli
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish journal cli exercise"
$ git push origin exercise-journal_cli
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.
