# Mining Simulator

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Setup

Ensure you type the `ea` keyboard shortcut to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Mining Simulator

We're going to create a gold mining simulator game.

This project is designed to learn about supervisors and fault tolerance.

A `MineSupervisor` will supervise a dynamic number of `Mine` workers. Each `Mine` will be a [GenServer](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/GenServer.html).

```mermaid
flowchart
  MS[MineSupervisor]
  M1[Mine]
  M2[Mine]
  M3[Mine]

  MS --> M1
  MS --> M2
  MS --> M3
```

Each `Mine` will harvest `5` gold every `5` seconds.

Upon harvesting, each `Mine` will send a message to the `ResourceStore` [GenServer](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/GenServer.html) to store `5` more gold.

```mermaid
flowchart
M1[Mine] --send 5 gold--> ResourceStore
```

## Create A New Mix Project

Using the command line, create a new supervised project in the `projects` folder called `mining_simulator`.

```
mix new mining_simulator --sup
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

Dialyzer, Credo, and ExDoc are optional for this project.

## Configure the MineSupervisor

Configure the MineSupervisor to start in `application.ex`.
The MineSupervisor should be able to dynamically supervise its child `Mine` workers.

## Configure the ResourceStore

Configure the `ResourceStore` to start in `application.ex`.
The `ResourceStore` should be a [GenServer](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/GenServer.html) or [Agent](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Agent.html), which starts with `200` gold in its state.

## MiningSimulator.new_mine/0

The `MiningSimulator.new_mine/0` function should start a `Mine` [GenServer](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/GenServer.html) under the `MineSupervisor`.
It should remove `200` gold from the `ResourceStore`.

The `Mine` harvests resources on an interval and sends a message to add gold to the `ResourceStore`.

If there is less than `200` gold in the `ResourceStore`, the `new_mine/0` function should return an error tuple `{:error, :not_enough_funds}`

## MiningSimulator.explode/1

Don't worry, these Mine's are `100%` robot operated and fully insured so if a mine explodes we can start
a new mine.

The `MiningSimulator.explode/1` function should take the `pid` of a `Mine` and kill the `Mine`'s process.
The `MineSupervisor` should then automatically start up a new `Mine`.

## (Bonus) Finite Resources

Each `Mine` should start with a finite amount of resources (A random amount between `500` and `1000` gold).
Every time the `Mine` harvests, resources decrease the total gold available by `5`.

The' Mine' should terminate without being restarted by the `MineSupervisor` when the' Mine' runs out of resources.

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-mining_simulator
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish mining simulator exercise"
$ git push origin exercise-mining_simulator
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.
