# Personality Test

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Personality Test

In this exercise, you will create an Elixir script to run a personality test from
the terminal.

Create a `personality_test.exs` script in the projects folder, which you should be able to run with:

```
$ elixir personality_test.exs
```

This will be a two choice personality test. You have creative freedom over what you would like the personality test
to decide.

For our example, we'll use a "Are you a dog person or a cat person?" test.

The personality test will ask the user 5 questions. Each question has 2 choices which help determine if they
are one personality type or another.

For example,

1. Do you love to go for walks? yes/no
2. Do you value your alone time and need a lot of it? yes/no
3. Are you generally high energy? yes/no
4. Do you prefer sports or reading a book? sports/book
5. Water or soda? water/soda

You can use [IO.gets/1](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/IO.html#gets/1) to ask the user questions from the script.

Once finished with the quiz, it should print out a result based on their answers.

```elixir
"You are a Dog person!"
```

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-personality_quiz_script
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish personality quiz script exercise"
$ git push origin exercise-personality_quiz_script
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.
