# Portfolio: Blog Comments

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new)

## Blog Comments

You're going to add a the ability to comment on a blog to your existing portfolio project.

* Comments **belong to** a Blog.
* Blogs **have many** Comments.

Comments should have `:user_id`, `:content`, and `:blog_id` fields.

```mermaid
classDiagram
  class Comment {
    blog_id: :id
    content: :text
  }
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Comment Requirements

Ensure you:

* Can create an associated comment from the blog show page using a form with a textarea input.
* List all associated comments on the blog show page.

You do not need to handle commenting on a comment. All comments will be for the associated blog.

### Bonus: Usernames

Add a new `:username` field to each user if you have not already from a previous exercise.
Associate comments with the currently signed in user, and display the User's `:username` above each comment.

This creates a new relationship between Comments and Users, but does not change the relationship between Comments and Blogs.

* Users **have many** Comments.
* Comments **belong to** a User.

```mermaid
classDiagram
  class User {
    username: :text
  }
  class Comment {
    user_id: :id
  }
```

Ensure you:

* Display the username of the user associated with each comment on the blog show page, in the list of comments.

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-portfolio_comments
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish portfolio comments exercise"
$ git push origin exercise-portfolio_comments
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.

## Up Next

| Previous                                                 | Next                                                   |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | -----------------------------------------------------: |
| [Book Search Books](../reading/book_search_books.livemd) | [Book Search Tags](../reading/book_search_tags.livemd) |
