# Portfolio: Mock

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new)

## Styled Portfolio

So far, we've focused on functionality for the portfolio site. It's time to plan some personal and customized styles.

Use [Figma](https://www.figma.com/) to create a mock for your portfolio site.

Ensure to include the following:

* A Home Page
* A Blog Page
* Custom Navigation with links to
  * The Home Page
  * The Blog Page
  * Your socials (GitHub, Linkedin, etc)

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Bonus (Project Section)

Create a projects section for your portfolio site. Include images for each project with a title and summary of the project.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Bonus (Project Show Page)

Include a project show page that will display all of the details for each project.
You might choose to include:

* The project name
* The project description
* links to the project github and website

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-portfolio_mock
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish portfolio mock exercise"
$ git push origin exercise-portfolio_mock
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.
