# Snowman Script

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Overview

Snowman is a game where players guess a letter in a hidden word.
For each incorrect guess they draw a piece of a snowman.
If they finish the snowman before guessing the word then they lose.

Players are given empty spaces representing characters in the word. They then guess a letter, and any letters in
that word are revealed.

For example, the player may be given a 5 letter word.

```
_ _ _ _ _
```

The player guesses the letter `e`, and the following is revealed.

```
_ e _ _ _
```

The player continues to guess, and gradually the answer is revealed as `"hello"`.

```
h e l l o
```

## Create A Snowman Script

In the `projects` folder, create a `snowman.exs` script.

When you execute the `snowman.exs` script it should randomly generate a word from
a list of your choosing, for example:

```elixir
Enum.random(["snowball", "carrot", "winter"])
```

The game should prompt players to enter a guess and display empty underscores `_`.
The player can then enter a single letter to guess.

A correct guess should reveal any matching letters in the word. An incorrect guess
should print the previously revealed letters.

For example,

```
$ elixir snowman.exs
_ _ _ _ _
w
w _ _ _ _
o
w o _ _ _
r
w o r _ _
l
w o r l _
e
w o r l _
d
w o r l d
```

## (Bonus) Draw A Snowman

Draw a snowman or other ASCII picture of your choosing gradually with each failed guess. Once the player reaches
the maximum number of guesses (based on how many steps it takes to draw your ASCII picture.) end the game with a failure
message. For example, you might gradually draw the following:

```
   _==_ _
 _,(",)|_|
  \/. \-|
__( :  )|_
```

> Art by Hayley Jane Wakenshaw

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-snowman_script
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish snowman script exercise"
$ git push origin exercise-snowman_script
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.
