# Typing Game

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Setup

Ensure you type the `ea` keyboard shortcut to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Typing Game

You're going to create a typing game which helps players practice their typing speed.
If a player does not type a word in time, the game will end and restart.

A process will prompt the user for input every five seconds. They must enter the
prompted word. If they do not enter the word within five seconds, or if they enter the word incorrectly then
the game will crash and restart.

You may use any random list of words. For example: `["red", "blue", "green", "orange", "yellow", "pink"]`.
Remember that you can retrieve input from the console using [IO.get/2](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/IO.html#get/2).

The player should be able to load your game into the [IEx](https://hexdocs.pm/iex/IEx.html) shell, and enter the prompted word.

```
$ mix run --no-halt
Your word: red
red
Your word: blue
bluw
Your word: red
```

Create a mix project with a supervisor in your projects folder and create your game.

```
$ mix new typing_game --sup
```

## Bonus: Terminate

Use the [GenServer.terminate/2](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/GenServer.html#c:terminate/2)
callback to print a message in the console when the game crashes.

```
$ mix run --no-halt
Your word: red
rad
You lose!
Your word: blue
```

## Bonus: Score

For each successful word store a score in memory.
When the game crashes, use the [GenServer.terminate/2](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/GenServer.html#terminate/2) callback
to print the score to the player.

```
$ mix run --no-halt
Your word: red
5
4
2
red
Your word: blue
5
4
3
2
1
Score: 1
Your word: yellow
```

## Bonus: Countdown

Count down from five in the console as the player enters their word.

```
$ mix run --no-halt
Your word: red
5
4
2
red
Your word: red
5
4
3
2
1
You lose!
Your word: blue
```

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-typing_game
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish typing game exercise"
$ git push origin exercise-typing_game
```

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch and notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.

## Up Next

| Previous                           | Next                           |
| ---------------------------------- | -----------------------------: |
| [Stack](../exercises/stack.livemd) | [Task](../reading/task.livemd) |
