# Video Game Spawner

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Setup

Ensure you type the `ea` keyboard shortcut to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Video Game Spawner

It's classic in video games for a **spawner** to spawn enemy creatures.
Typically the spawner has a limit for how many enemy creatures it can spawn. If
a creature dies, the spawner then re-spawns that creature.

You're going to create a `Spawner` application to simulate a game with enemy spawns.

This project aims to help you learn about supervisors and fault tolerance.

A `SpawnerSupervisor` will supervise three `Creature` `GenServers`s.

```mermaid
flowchart
  S[Spawner]
  C1[Creature]
  C2[Creature]
  C3[Creature]

  S --> C1
  S --> C2
  S --> C3
  S --> C4
```

When a `Creature` process dies, the `Spawner` supervisor will automatically restart it.

## Create A New Mix Project

Using the command line, create a new supervised project in the `projects` folder called `spawner`.

```
mix new spawner --sup
```

## Create the Creature GenServer

Create a `Creature` GenServer. It should start as a minimal GenServer with no additional functionality for now.

## Configure the Spawner

Configure the Spawner to start in `application.ex`.

## (Optional) Use :observer to View Your Spawner and Creature

Start your project

```
iex -S mix
```

Then start the observer.

```
:observer.start()
```

Use the observer to kill a `Creature` process. It should be automatically restarted
by the `Spawner` supervisor.

## :kill

A `Creature` process should be killed when it receives a `:kill` message.
Create a `Spawner.kill/1` which accepts the `pid` of a `Creature` process and sends it the `:kill` message.

Upon terminating, the `Spawner` supervisor should automatically restart the `Creature` process.

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-video_game_spawner
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish video game spawner exercise"
$ git push origin exercise-video_game_spawner
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.
