# Wordle

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, github: "livebook-dev/kino", override: true},
  {:kino_lab, "~> 0.1.0-dev", github: "jonatanklosko/kino_lab"},
  {:vega_lite, "~> 0.1.4"},
  {:kino_vega_lite, "~> 0.1.1"},
  {:benchee, "~> 0.1"},
  {:ecto, "~> 3.7"},
  {:math, "~> 0.7.0"},
  {:faker, "~> 0.17.0"},
  {:utils, path: "#{__DIR__}/../utils"},
  {:tested_cell, git: "https://github.com/BrooklinJazz/tested_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Create A New Mix Project

Using the command line, create a new project in the `projects` folder called `wordle`.

```
mix new wordle
```

## Wordle

In this exercise, you will build a Wordle application. Wordle is a game where users guess a five letter word.
They have 6 guesses and are provided hints based on their previous guesses.

If a letter is in the correct position in the guess, it will highlight green.

If a letter is in the word, but in the incorrect position, it will highlight yellow.

You should be able to start the application using `iex -S mix`

```
$ iex -S mix
```

Then start playing a Wordle game with `Wordle.play()`.
the Wordle game will randomly generate a word and store the state of the player's game.
Likely, you will rely on a `GenServer`.

```
iex> game = Wordle.play()
```

The player can type in their guess. it should be a five letter string such as `hello`

The game should then give them feedback on their answer. `G` will mean green, so the letter
is in the correct spot, and `Y` will mean yellow, so the letter is in the word but in the wrong spot.
Incorrect letters will be marked with an underscore `_`.

```
iex> Wordle.guess(game, "hello")
H E L L 0
_ _ _ G Y
```

When the player enters the correct guess, end the game.

```
iex> Wordle.guess(game, "world")
W O R L D
G G G G G

iex> Process.alive?(game)
false

iex> Wordle.guess(game, "")
{:error, :game_not_found}
```

If a player guesses more than 6 times, the game should end with them losing.

## Test Cases

Cover the following test cases and ensure your code passes the tests.

* A player guesses the correct word
* A player guesses a completely incorrect word
* A player guesses a partially correct word
* A player guesses 6 times and loses

## (BONUS) Edge Cases

Wordle has a number of edge cases with words that will make providing feedback more difficult.
Add the following additional test cases and ensure you code passes.

* A player guesses a word with similar letters and one is in the correct position (i.e "HELLO" vs "WORLD")
* A player guesses a word with similar letters and both are not in the correct position (i.e "HELLO" vs "LEGAL")
* A player guesses a word with similar letters and only one should be yellow  (i.e "HELLO" vs "GLOBE")

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the project folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.

```
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish wordle application exercise"
```
