# Arithmetic

## Setup

```elixir
Mix.install([{:kino, github: "livebook-dev/kino"}])
```

## Overview

**Arithmetic** is a branch of mathematics that involves the manipulation of numbers.
Often functional programming languages like Elixir get a bad reputation for being very math heavy.
The same goes for programming in general, but especially functional programming.

Let's dispel that myth. While there are some applications of programming that require
advanced math skills, many do not. In fact, the most in demand programming industries such
as web development only require familiarity with simple arithmetic 
(adding, subtracting, dividing, multiplying, etc), and even then, we let the computers do most
of the heavy lifting!

Rest assured, this will not be a math course, nor will most real-world applications of
programming demand advanced mathematics.

Now, with that said, computers were originally built to perform computations that humans could not perform easily or
at all. So out of the box we have the ability to perform mathematical calculations.

Humans have been building [mathematical machines](https://www.cs.uah.edu/~rcoleman/Common/History/History.html)
for ages and the computers that run our programs are by far the most powerful!

## Integers

Integers are whole numbers, that also include negative numbers.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
... --> -5 --> -4 --> -3 --> -2 --> -1 --> 0 --> 1 --> 2 --> 3 --> 4 --> 5 --> 6[...]
```

You can use integers directly in your programs.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
1
1023
1235460
-1
-100
-123512
```

Often you'll use integers for representing ages, days, years, cash values and more.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, enter the biggest number you can think of.
If you've used any other programming language, you might be surprised! Integers
in Elixir are unbounded, meaning they have no maximum size.

Contrast that with a language like JavaScript which has a maximum integer size of `9007199254740991`
Elixir makes that look tiny!

```elixir

```

## Floats

**Floats** refer to **floating-point numbers**.

Floats are used to represent decimal numbers in your program like `1.22`, `2.3`, `1.0`, and even `0.0`.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  ... --> -0.0001 --> -0.001 --> -0.01 --> -0.1 --> 0.0 --> 0.1 --> 0.01 --> 0.001 --> 0.0001 --> a[...]
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

You can use floats directly in your program just like with integers.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
0.0
3.5
12123.123123123
```

Floats can have varying **precision**. The precision of a float is the number of digits
after the decimal point.

For example, the precision of the float `1.2` is one. the precision of the float `1.22` is two.

You'll often use floats for representing percentages.
For example, you might want to represent a progress bar as a percentage.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, try changing the float `percentage` to any float between `0` and `100`
and see how the loading bar changes! Replace `50` with your answer.

```elixir
percentage = 50

# TODO - Hide
Kino.Markdown.new("
<div style=\"height: 20px; width: 100%; background-color: grey\">
<div style=\"height: 20px; width: #{percentage}%; background-color: green\"></div>
</div>")
```

### Floating-Point Errors

Take great care when performing calculations with floats.

Computers are limited to how precise they can be when representing floating-point numbers. 
Therefore, it's possible to have unexpected results!

For example, what do you think `1.2 + 1.4` returns? Probably `2.6` right? Nope!
You'll see the actual answer is `2.5999999999999996` in the Elixir cell below.

```elixir
1.2 + 1.4
```

Why do computers have these errors? Well that requires a fairly in depth understanding of
how the computer hardware works under the hood. For our purposes it's enough to be aware that it happens.

If you are curious, Computerphile has an [excellent video on why](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZRI1IfStY0&ab_channel=Computerphile).

Due to these errors, **you should not use floats to represent money** even though it might seem
intuitive to translate `$1.29` into `1.29`.

Instead, you'll often use integers to represent pennies so `$1.29` becomes `129`.

Alternatively, many projects use other money specific constructs instead that come with safety and 
functionality improvements.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, enter some floating-point addition that returns an unexpected result.

```elixir

```

## Arithmetic Operators

Using **arithmetic operators**, we can add `+`, subtract `-`, multiply `*` and divide `/`.
We also have two special arithmetic operators, `div` for integer division and `rem` for
remainder.

Arithmetic operators manipulate both positive and negative integers and floats.

As previously mentioned in the lesson on floats, arithmetic operations on 
floats may result in floating-point errors.

## Addition

```elixir
7 + 5
```

You can create entire equations by writing operators one after the other. So long as there is a
valid number (integer or float) on the operator's left and right hand side.

```elixir
4 + 3 + 2 + 1
```

The following code will crash because there is a dangling `+` operator. The error says `TokenMissingError` and `expression is incomplete` because we did not complete the mathematical expression. Whenever our code crashes, 
Elixir lets you know why with an error message.

```elixir
2 +
```

As mentioned, adding floats together may result in floating point errors, so only use them
when a small amount of innaccuracy isn't an issue.

```elixir
1.2 + 1.4
```

You can use floats and integers together in arithmetic expressions.

```elixir
1.2 + 4
```

```elixir
1.5 + 3.5 + 3 + 4.1 + 9
```

You can also add negative and positive numbers together. 
Adding a negative number is the same as subtracting a positive number.

```elixir
8 + -9
```

Adding negative numbers might feel unintuitive, so it's rare
to write code like this, but it's useful to know you can.

### Your turn

In the Elixir cell below, add two massive numbers together that you couldn't do in your head.

```elixir

```

## Subtraction

We can subtract numbers with the minus `-` operator.

```elixir
20 - 12
```

Like with addition, we can subtract floats and integers in any combination.

```elixir
2.5 - 10
```

```elixir
10 - 2.5 - 2.1
```

Floating-point errors can still occur.

```elixir
1.3 - 1.2
```

Subtracting a negative is the same as adding a positive.

```elixir
10 - -1
```

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, subtract two massive numbers together.

```elixir

```

## Multiplication

Computers can efficiently multiply numbers. Under the hood, multiplication is just 
repeated additon. For example, `5 * 5` is `5 + 5 + 5 + 5 + 5`.

```elixir
10 * 10
```

Multiplication can still result in floating-point errors.

```elixir
2.2 * 2.1
```

You can multiply integers and floats both positive and negative in combination, like with addition and subtraction.

```elixir
2 * 30 * -2 * 1.4
```

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, multiply two massive numbers together.

```elixir

```

## Division

We can also divide numbers. However, in Elixir there are two operators for division.
There is the `/` operator, which will always return a `float`, and the `div` operator, which will always return an `integer` (rounded down)

```elixir
10 / 5
```

`div` is a function. You will learn more about functions in the future. 
For now, it's enough to know that `div` allows you to take two numbers and divide them.

```elixir
div(10, 5)
```

Remember that `div` always rounds values down, so `1.5` becomes `1`.

```elixir
div(3, 2)
```

There's a limit to how precise numbers can be in any computer program, so you should always
take care when using fractions that don't divide evenly. You can also run into the same 
floating-point calculation issues discussed in the floats lesson.

For example, notice that `10 / 3` is `3.3333333333333335`.

```elixir
10 / 3
```

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, divide `223` by `71` using `/` to get a nice slice of **pi**.

```elixir

```

Divide `100` by `3` using `div`.

```elixir

```

## BEDMAS

Calculations in Elixir follow the **BEDMAS** order of operations.
**BEDMAS** stands for brackets, exponents, division, multiplication, addition, subtraction.

That means that the following will evaluate 5 * 2 before 5 + 5.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
5 + 5 * 2
```

So it first evaluates into

```elixir
5 + 10
```

To get the result of 15.

```elixir
15
```

Here's the same statement in an Elixir cell so that you can confirm the result is 15.

```elixir
5 + 5 * 2
```

Had it been evaluated from left to right, the result would have been 20.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
5 + 5 * 2
10 * 2
20
```

You might notice the **B** in BEDMAS stands for brackets. You can use brackets in your program
override the order of operations.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
(5 + 5) * 2
(10) * 2
20
```

Here's the same statement in an Elixir cell for you to confirm it's result is 20.

```elixir
(5 + 5) * 2
```

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, create a mathematical expression that depends on **BEDMAS**. 
Use brackets `()` to alter the return value of the expression.

```elixir

```

## Exponents

You also might notice the **E** in BEDMAS stands for exponents. The exponent operator in
Elixir is `**`.

That means that `10 ** 2` is 10 to the power of 2. Mathematically that's the same as `10 * 10`.

`10 ** 3` means `10 * 10 * 10`. If you would like a more in-depth explanation of exponents, there's
a [video by Khan Academy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XZRQhkii0h0&ab_channel=KhanAcademy).

```elixir
10 ** 2
```

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below,
find `10` to the power of `214`.

```elixir

```

## Remainder

A remainder is the amount left when you divide one number by the other.
For example, if you divide `5` by `2`, the remainder is `1`.

That's because `2` goes into `5` twice and leaves a remainder of `1`.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
5 ~ 2
5 ~ 4
5 - 4 = remainder
5 - 4 = 1
```

If you're not familiar with remainders, here's a [video by Khan Academy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P1qyjdh_sIw&ab_channel=KhanAcademy).

```elixir
rem(5, 2)
```

In programming, we can use remainders to check if a number is evenly divisible by a number.
For example, a number is even if `rem(number, 2)` equals `0`.

```elixir
rem(6, 2)
```

Where as an odd number will have a remainder of `1`.

```elixir
rem(5, 2)
```

You'll also use remainders to cycle through numbers but then reset back to 0 when you hit
a limit. You don't need to know how to do this yet, but it will be helpful in future lessons.

````elixir
# TODO - Hide

Kino.animate(500, 0, fn i ->
  md = Kino.Markdown.new("
  ```elixir
  rem(#{i}, 10) = #{rem(i, 10)}
  ```
  ")

  {:cont, md, i + 1}
end)
````

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, find the remainder of 10 divided by 3 using `rem`.

```elixir

```
