# Atoms

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Setup

Ensure you type the `ea` keyboard shortcut to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively, you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Atoms

Atoms are named constants. In other words, their name is their value.

Atoms are often used to represent common constants in your program.
For example, they often represent the :success or :error of a program.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
:success
:error
```

They might also be used to represent the state of some action. For example:

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
:completed
:in_progress
:starting
```

You might wonder why we have both strings and atoms because they seem to do the same thing.
One primary reason is performance. Atoms are stored in an **atom table** and can be referenced by an integer.
This makes it way faster to check if two atoms are equal.

What is an **atom table**? Imagine it like an excel spreadsheet.
Each value has a numbered key, so checking `1 = 1` is a lot easier than checking.
`"HeLloWorld = HeLloWorLd"`.

Atoms are defined using a colon `:` and a series of letters, digits, and certain valid symbols.

### Rules For Naming Atoms

There are specific rules for naming atoms, but fortunately you don't need
to memorize them! Instead, pay attention to the colors in your code.
If you define an atom incorrectly, you'll notice that it's no longer blue.

Here are some valid atoms:

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
:hello
:my_atom1
```

Here are some invalid atoms, notice they are mostly white:

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
:$this_is_invalid
:!this_is_invalid
:2
:@
:$
:?
:invalid # spaces are not valid
```

Sometimes languages establish conventions. Conventions are common patterns of doing things which
the community agrees upon.
For example, In Elixir it's conventional for atoms to have lowercase names separated by underscores.

While the following will work:

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
:MY_ATOM!
```

It's usually unconventional to name an atom with capital letters except in specific circumstances.

You can use quotes with atoms to avoid name rules.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
:"$Now we don't have to follow any rules. This is a valid atom (though unconventional)"
```

## Secret Atoms

`nil`, `false`, and `true` are all actually atoms.

We can use `===` to verify that `:nil` and `nil` are equivalent.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
nil === :nil
```

The same goes for `true`, and `false`. They are
all atoms but omit the colon `:`.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
true === :true
false === :false
```

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, use `===` to check if `nil` is equal to `:nil`.

```elixir

```

Check if `true` is equal to `:true`.

```elixir

```

Check if `false` is equal to `:false`.

```elixir

```

## Further Reading

Consider the following resource(s) to deepen your understanding of the topic.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

* [Elixir School: Atoms](https://elixirschool.com/en/lessons/basics/basics/#atoms-7)
* [HexDocs: Atoms](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Atom.html#content)
* [Exercism: Atoms](https://exercism.org/tracks/elixir/concepts/atoms)

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-atoms
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish atoms section"
$ git push origin exercise-atoms
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.

## Up Next

| Previous                                             | Next                               |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------: |
| [Guessing Games](../exercises/guessing_games.livemd) | [Tuples](../reading/tuples.livemd) |
