# Built-In Elixir Modules

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, github: "livebook-dev/kino", override: true},
  {:kino_lab, "~> 0.1.0-dev", github: "jonatanklosko/kino_lab"},
  {:vega_lite, "~> 0.1.3"},
  {:benchee, "~> 0.1"},
  {:ecto, "~> 3.7"},
  {:math, "~> 0.7.0"},
  {:utils, path: "utils"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)

## Overview
Elixir provides a great deal of built-in behavior in common modules.

There is far to much available for you to master each module in depth. However, it's useful to
be aware of them and where to look when you're reaching for some specific functionality.

Modules group related functions together, and in general, each data type has a module
associated with it where elixir provides a variety of functions for that data type.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

## The Kernel Module

The [Kernel](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/1.13.2/Kernel.html#functions) is the core of everything Elixir. It provides all of functionality that
Elixir is built upon.

Even the basic operators that you've been using are simply an alternative syntax to using functions in
the Kernel.

```elixir
Kernel.+(3, 3)
```

The Kernel has many useful functions for determining a value's type such as `is_map/1`.

```elixir
Kernel.is_map(%{})
```

Functions in the Kernel module can be accessed directly without using the `Kernel.` namespace.

```elixir
is_map(%{})
```

The Kernel is fairly large and overwhelming to look at. Remember, your goal for this section is not
to remember every function of every module. Instead, you'll develop familiarity over time and with
practice.

It's more important to know that the Elixir standard library exists, and that you use
its many useful functions and modules.

Every developers most fundamental skill is the ability to learn and lookup information
when you need it, not memorize a list of functions.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Your Turn

Try using the `is_atom/1`, `is_bitstring/1`, and `is_integer/1` functions.
use `%{}`, `"hello"`, and `2` as an argument to each.

```elixir

```

## The Integer Module

The [Integer](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/1.13.2/Integer.html#functions) module contains functionality related to Integers.

It's time to confess, we've been making you determine if a number is even or odd the hard way.

Integer provides an `is_even/1` and `is_odd/1` function.

```elixir
Integer.is_even(3)
```

```elixir
Integer.is_odd(3)
```

### Your Turn

Use the `Integer.to_string/1` function to convert `"2"` to an integer.

```elixir

```

Try using the `Integer.gcd/2` function to determine the greatest common denominator of
`10` and `15`. The greatest common divisor (GCD) is the largest
positive integer that divides both 10 and 15 evenly.

<details>
<summary>Hint</summary>
the result of `Integer.gcd(10, 15) should be 5
</details>

```elixir

```

## The String Module

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

The [String](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/1.13.2/String.html#functions) module contains functionality related to strings.

Here's a few common functions to get you started.

* `at/2` get the value at the index of a string.
* `contains?/2` check if a string contains a value
* `capitalize/2` capitalize first word in a string and leaves the rest lowercase.
* `split/1` split the string into a list of words.
* `trim/2` remove whitespace from a string.
* `upcase/2` upcase a string so it is ALL CAPS

### Your turn

Use the `String.at/2` function to get the character at index 2 of "hello".

You might not yet be familiar with strings and indexes.
You can imagine a string like a list of characters.

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  subgraph Characters
    S
    T
    R
    I
    N
    G
  end
  subgraph Indexes
    direction TB
    S --- 0
    T --- 1
    R --- 2
    I --- 3
    N --- 4
    G --- 5
  end
```

Notice that the index starts with 0, not 1.
Think of it as "how far is this character from the start of the string?"
The first character is 0 away from the start, the second is 1 away, etc.
(Americans count age this way: on your 1st birthday, you are 1 year away from birth.)

So the character at index 1 in `"hello"` would be `"e"`.

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  subgraph Characters
    H
    E
    L1[L]
    L2[L]
    O
  end
  subgraph Indexes
    direction TB
    H --- 0
    E --- 1
    L1 --- 2
    L2 --- 3
    O --- 4
  end
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

Enter your answer in the Elixir cell below.

```elixir

```

## The Map Module

The [Map](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/1.13.2/Map.html#functions) module contains functionality related to maps.

Here's a few common functions to get you started.

* `get/3` retrieve values in a map.
* `put/3` put a value into a map.
* `keys/1` list the keys in a map.
* `delete/2` remove a key and value from a map.
* `merge/2` merge two maps together.
* `values/1` list the values in a map.

### Your turn

Try using `Map.merge/2` to combine `%{one: 1}` and `%{two: 2}`.

```elixir

```

## Date and DateTime

Elixir provides useful built-in structs. You'll become familiar with the `Date` and `DateTime` modules
if you ever need to work with time in your programs.

Both represent a date in a calendar, however `DateTime` provides increased specificity by also
storing the time of the day. Thus `Date` and `DateTime`.

You can create a new `Date` the same way you would create any struct. It accepts a `:year`, `:month`,
and `:day`

```elixir
%Date{year: 2001, month: 8, day: 10}
```

### Your Turn

Try creating a `Date` for your birthday, if you don't want to use your birthday you can use
any day you like.

```elixir

```

## Sigils

Woah, what is `~D[2001-08-10]`? Well that's how Elixir internally represents dates.
It uses a construct called a `sigil`. A sigil is an alternative syntax for working with
certain types of values.

You don't yet need to be deeply familiar with how sigils work, but it's useful to be aware of them.
A sigil is defined with a tilde `~` character followed by a character. In this case the `~D`
is for a `Date`. You can create a Date directly with this syntax.

```elixir
~D[2001-08-10]
```

### Your Turn

Create the same data as you did above. This time, use the `~D[]` syntax.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Date.new/4

Often when creating dates, it's beneficial to use the built-in `Date.new/4` function which
validates the date when creating it.

Otherwise, you can create some pretty wacky dates!

```elixir
%Date{year: 20222, month: 143, day: 123}
```

You can see the above is not valid when using `Date.new/4`. it returns `{:error, :invalid_date}`

```elixir
Date.new(20222, 143, 123)
```
