# Code Editors

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)

## Code Editors

Code editors are a software application designed specifically for editing code.

Some code editors are minimal and only edit code. Some
come with development tools that allow you to write, run, and test code
all from the same application. Generally we call these integrated development environments or **IDEs**.

There are a wide variety of code editors and IDEs, each with their own advantages.

## Visual Studio Code
We've chosen to recommend and support Visual Studio Code for this course. It's a fast and minimal code editor
that can be customized with extensions to add additional features.

It's open source and free, and the community is incredibly strong building new features and extensions all the time.

However, the primary reason it's the best choice for this course is the LiveShare feature.

Being a remote course comes with specific challenges. We cannot physically interact, so it's important to
be able to collaborate remotely. LiveShare allows us to collaboratively work on the same project by creating
a LiveShare session and having other developers join the session. Developers can then all view and edit the same project
simultaneously. 

LiveShare even works through the [web version](https://vscode.dev/) of Visual Studio Code so you can quickly get coding on an unfamiliar or
temporary computer.

## Download Visual Studio Code
If you have not already, please download and install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

You may already have a preferred editor. While highly recommended, It's not mandatory that you use Visual Studio Code.
However, even if it doesn't become your daily code editor, we still recommend that you install it so that you can join and share
LiveShare sessions with your teacher and classmates.

### Open Visual Studio Code

You can either open Visual Studio Code manually or through the command line.
It takes some setup, but it's highly useful to be able to use the `code` command in your terminal to
open Visual Studio Code with a specific project.

Windows and Linux users should automatically have the `code` command available when they install Visual Studio Code.
Mac users can follow [these instructions](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/mac#_launching-from-the-command-line) to setup the `code` command.

Navigate to the curriculum folder using `cd` in your command line, and then run `code .` to open Visual Studio Code
in the current folder.

```
$ cd path/to/curriculum
$ code .
```

## Setup Recommended Extensions

We have a list of recommended extensions for this curriculum.

Open the Extensions tab and search for @recommended to see the Workspace Recommendations.

