# Comments

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Setup

Ensure you type the `ea` keyboard shortcut to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively, you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Comments

You can create inline comments in your code in Elixir using `#`. Anything after the `#` on the same line will be part of the comment

```elixir
# You can use comments to leave messages in your code.
```

It's sometimes handy for documenting what your code does. However, it's often better to use comments sparingly.
Leaving a comment often means that there's something in your code that didn't explain itself.

In these moments you might find it useful to consider how you can improve your code to be self documenting rather than leaving
a comment in unclear code. There are better forms of documentation that you'll learn about in future lessons.

Sometimes it's handy to use comments to temporarily remove pieces of code and save them for later.
However, comments can be misused.
You're also likely to
encounter codebases that leave thousands of TODO comments everywhere. TODO comments can be useful, but when abused they
can be worse than no comment at all!

```elixir
# Use comments to leave notes on your code.
```

Depending on your code editor, You can comment out many lines of code at once. Highlight the code you want to comment
then press the correct keybinding. The binding will be different depending on your editor and if you are using GNU/Linux, macOS, or Windows.
In Livebook, it's likely `CTRL-/` or `COMMAND-/` but you can double check in the keyboard shortcuts tab.

Click on the keyboard icon <i class="ri-keyboard-box-fill"></i> in the left sidebar of this page to see all of the keyboard shortcuts.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Your Turn

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

In the Elixir cell below, create a comment `# hello world`

```elixir

```

In the Elixir cell below, comment all of the code out using the **Toggle lines comment** keyboard shortcut.

```elixir
1 + 1
2 + 3
3 + 1 + 2
123 + 12 + 256
```

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-comments
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish comments section"
$ git push origin exercise-comments
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.

## Up Next

| Previous                                           | Next                                       |
| -------------------------------------------------- | -----------------------------------------: |
| [Github Collab](../exercises/github_collab.livemd) | [Arithmetic](../reading/arithmetic.livemd) |
