# Command Line

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:jason, "~> 1.4"},
  {:kino, "~> 0.8.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Setup

Ensure you type the `ea` keyboard shortcut to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively, you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Review Questions

Upon completing this lesson, a student should be able to answer the following questions.

* How do you use your command line to navigate the file system?
* How do you use your command line to manipulate (create and remove) folders and files?

## Overview

We use the command line to interact with our computer through a text interface rather than through a Graphical User Interface (GUI).

Many programs only run through the command line. Generally, we call these **Command-Line Applications**, **CLI Applications** (for Command Line Interface), or just **CLIs**.

The command line will differ depending on your operating system (Windows, macOS, GNU/Linux). Thus, we will include the commands
specific instructions for each operating system.

Each operating system uses a different program for its command line. Follow the instructions for your operating system to open your command line.

* **Windows**: Open the start menu with the <kbd>Win <i class="ri-windows-fill"></i></kbd> key. Search for Command Prompt. Ensure you run in administrator mode to avoid permission issues.
* **macOS or GNU/Linux**: Open the Terminal App <kbd>Ctrl+Alt+T</kbd>
* **macOS** Click the Launchpad icon in the Dock or open the Launchpad with <kbd>Command + Space</kbd>. Type Terminal in the search field, then click the Terminal program.

For an overview of the Command-Line Interface, we recommend this excellent video by Crash Course Computer Science.

<!-- livebook:{"attrs":{"source":"YouTube.new(\"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4RPtJ9UyHS0\")","title":"Command Line Interfaces"},"kind":"Elixir.HiddenCell","livebook_object":"smart_cell"} -->

```elixir
YouTube.new("https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4RPtJ9UyHS0")
```

### Current Working Directory

Your command line should display the **current working directory**. You'll often see `$` represent
the current working directory in tutorials. Omit the `$` when entering text into your command line.

For example, on Windows 11, mine is:

```sh
C:\Users\brook>
```

### Your Turn

Open the command line on your computer and enter the `whoami` command to see your current user.

You should see a similar output.

```sh
$ whoami
your_user_name
```

## Running Elixir Files

With [Elixir installed](https://elixir-lang.org/install.html) we can use the command line to execute an Elixir file ending in `.ex` or `.exs`.

Elixir treats both file extensions similarly. However, we generally use `.exs` files for scripts.

Let's create an Elixir script. First, create a `script.exs` file with the following content. This prints a `"Hello, world!"` message in your console.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
IO.puts("Hello, world!")
```

Then execute the file from the command line. Any Elixir code inside of the file will execute.

```
$ elixir script.ex
Hello, world!
```

## Permissions (sudo)

Some commands require permissions to enter. You should see an error in the command line
if the command requires permissions.

In **Windows** you often need to run the Command Prompt
or Powershell in administrator mode.

For **macOS & GNU/Linux** you can preface commands with **sudo**. You'll be prompted for your computer's
password. You'll notice that `whoami` returns a different value (probably `root`).

Root is the superuser account in macOS and GNU/Linux.

```sh
$ sudo whoami
root
```

## List Files & Folders

Our computer stores **files** and **folders**. The terms **folder** and **directory** are interchangeable.

We use the following commands to list files and folders.

* **Windows**: `dir`
* **macOS or GNU/Linux**: `ls`

macOS and GNU/Linux hide specific files. For example, files
starting with `.` are automatically hidden.

You can see hidden files with `ls -a`.

```sh
$ ls -a
```

On **Windows**, all files and folders should display by default.

```sh
C:\> dir
```

### Your Turn

Use the command line the files and folders in the current working directory. If you are
on macOS or GNU/Linux, use both `ls` and `ls -a` to see the difference.

## Create Files

You can create a file using the following commands

* **macOS & GNU/Linux**: `touch`
* **Windows**: `echo`

**macOS & GNU/Linux** Allow you to enter `touch` with the name of a file.

```sh
$ touch ./example_file.txt
```

**Windows** requires you to enter the content into (`>`) the file.

```sh
C:\> echo example content > ./example_file.txt
```

On **Windows**, you can use `type nul` to create an empty file.

```sh
C:\> echo type nul > ./example_file.txt
```

`./` represents the current working directory. You can generally omit it.

Here are the same commands without the `./`.

```sh
$ touch example_file.txt
$ echo example content > example_file.txt
```

### Your Turn

Using the command line, create a file called `test.txt`.

On **macOS & GNU/Linux** run:

```sh
$ touch test.txt
```

On **Windows** run:

```sh
C:\> type nul > text.txt
```

## Create Folders

You can create a folder with `mkdir` on every operating system. It's short for **make directory**.

### Your Turn

Using the command line, create an `example` folder using `mkdir`.

```sh
$ mkdir example
```

Then use the command line
to create a file called `in_example.txt` inside of the `example` folder.

On **macOS or GNU/Linux**, enter:

```sh
$ touch example/in_example.txt
```

On **Windows** enter:

```sh
C:\> echo type nul > example/in_example.txt
```

## Navigating the File System

You can navigate the file system with `cd` on every operating system.

You navigate through files and folders the same way you would click through the file explorer.

Enter `cd` with the path of the folder to navigate to it. The folder must exist.

```sh
$ cd example_folder
$ cd first_folder/second_folder/third_folder
```

You can navigate up folders using `../`. You can go up any number of folders by repeating `../`.

```sh
$ cd ../
$ cd ../../../
```

Let's walk through an example with several nested folders like so.

```sh
/top
  /folder_a
    /folder_b
      /folder_c
  /folder_1
    /folder_2
      /folder_3
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

We use `cd` to navigate between these folders and set the current working directory.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

```mermaid
flowchart LR
top --> folder_1 --> folder_2 --> folder_3
top --> folder_a --> folder_b --> folder_c
style top fill:lightgreen
```

For example, we can `cd folder_1/folder_2/` to set the current working directory to `folder_2`.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

```mermaid
flowchart LR
top_level_folder --> folder_1 --> folder_2 --> folder_3
top_level_folder --> folder_a --> folder_b --> folder_c
style folder_2 fill:lightgreen
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

And use `cd ../../folder_a/folder_b/folder_c` to set the current working directory to `folder_c`.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

```mermaid
flowchart LR
top_level_folder --> folder_1 --> folder_2 --> folder_3
top_level_folder --> folder_a --> folder_b --> folder_c
style folder_c fill:lightgreen
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Your Turn

Using the command line, go into the `example` folder you created earlier. List all of the files in the folder using `ls` or `dir`. You should
see the `in_example.txt` file from the previous exercise.

```sh
$ cd example
```

## Remove Files

You can remove files using the following commands.

* **macOS & GNU/Linux**: `rm`
* **Windows**: `del`

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Your Turn

Using the command line, delete the `in_example.txt` file from the previous exercise.

On **macOS & GNU/Linux** run:

```sh
$ rm example/in_example.txt
```

On **Windows** run:

```sh
C:\> del example/in_example.txt
```

## Remove Folders

You can remove folders using the following commands.

* **macOS & GNU/Linux**: `rm -rf`
* **Windows**: `rmdir`

### Your Turn

Remove the `example` folder from the previous exercise.

On **macOS & GNU/Linux** run:

```sh
$ rm -rf example
```

On **Windows** run:

```sh
C:\> rmdir example
```

## Reading Files

You can read file contents with the following commands.

* **macOS & GNU/Linux**: `cat`
* **Windows**: `type`.

### Your Turn

Create a new file `read_example.txt` with some text content.
You can use `echo` on every operating system to create a file with some content. However,
`type nul` only works on **Windows**.

run:

```sh
$ echo content > read_example.txt
```

Then read the content.

On **macOS & GNU/Linux** run:

```sh
$ cat read_example.txt
```

On **Windows** run:

```sh
C:\> type read_example.txt
```

## Tab Completion

To save time, you can generally use the <kbd>Tab</kbd> button to autocomplete a command or filename.

### Your Turn

Using the command line, create a new folder called `tab_to_folder`.

```sh
$ mkdir tab_to_folder
```

Navigate to the folder using autocompletion. Start typing `tab` then use the <kbd>Tab</kbd> key to autocomplete the folder name.

```sh
$ cd tab_to_folder
```

## With Great Power

The command line is powerful. Therefore the command line is
also dangerous. For example, a simple command can delete every file on your computer.

Open the dropdown below to see the command. You should **never** run it.

<details style="background-color: lightcoral; color: white; padding: 1rem;">
<summary>DANGER DO NOT RUN</summary>
rm -rf *
</details>

So be careful about running commands on your command line.

## Summary

This lesson is a brief primer on the command line. Here's a quick summary of the key takeaways.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

**macOS & GNU/Linux**

* list files and folders: `ls` and `ls -a`.
* create files: `touch`.
* create folders: `mkdir`.
* navigate: `cd`.
* remove files: `rm`.
* remove folders: `rm -rf`.
* read file contents: `cat`.

**Windows**

* list files and folders: `dir`.
* create files: `echo`.
* create folders: `mkdir`.
* navigate: `cd`.
* remove files: `del`.
* remove folders: `rmdir`.
* read file contents: `type`.

You can now handle everyday command-line tasks! Expect to learn more about the command line as you encounter more programming challenges.

## Mark As Completed

<!-- livebook:{"attrs":{"source":"file_name = Path.basename(Regex.replace(~r/#.+/, __ENV__.file, \"\"), \".livemd\")\n\nsave_name =\n  case Path.basename(__DIR__) do\n    \"reading\" -> \"command_line_reading\"\n    \"exercises\" -> \"command_line_exercise\"\n  end\n\nprogress_path = __DIR__ <> \"/../progress.json\"\nexisting_progress = File.read!(progress_path) |> Jason.decode!()\n\ndefault = Map.get(existing_progress, save_name, false)\n\nform =\n  Kino.Control.form(\n    [\n      completed: input = Kino.Input.checkbox(\"Mark As Completed\", default: default)\n    ],\n    report_changes: true\n  )\n\nTask.async(fn ->\n  for %{data: %{completed: completed}} <- Kino.Control.stream(form) do\n    File.write!(\n      progress_path,\n      Jason.encode!(Map.put(existing_progress, save_name, completed), pretty: true)\n    )\n  end\nend)\n\nform","title":"Track Your Progress"},"kind":"Elixir.HiddenCell","livebook_object":"smart_cell"} -->

```elixir
file_name = Path.basename(Regex.replace(~r/#.+/, __ENV__.file, ""), ".livemd")

save_name =
  case Path.basename(__DIR__) do
    "reading" -> "command_line_reading"
    "exercises" -> "command_line_exercise"
  end

progress_path = __DIR__ <> "/../progress.json"
existing_progress = File.read!(progress_path) |> Jason.decode!()

default = Map.get(existing_progress, save_name, false)

form =
  Kino.Control.form(
    [
      completed: input = Kino.Input.checkbox("Mark As Completed", default: default)
    ],
    report_changes: true
  )

Task.async(fn ->
  for %{data: %{completed: completed}} <- Kino.Control.stream(form) do
    File.write!(
      progress_path,
      Jason.encode!(Map.put(existing_progress, save_name, completed), pretty: true)
    )
  end
end)

form
```

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout -b command-line-reading
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish command line reading"
$ git push origin command-line-reading
```

Create a pull request from your `command-line-reading` branch to your `solutions` branch.
Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your instructor by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.
You (or your instructor) may merge your PR into your solutions branch after review.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.

## Up Next

| Previous                                   | Next                         |
| ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------: |
| [Start Here](../reading/start_here.livemd) | [Git](../reading/git.livemd) |
