# Error Handling
## Expected Errors

Now that you understand control flow and pattern matching, you're ready to tackle error handling.

Computers are nearly perfect. However, humans are not. Errors and bugs are part of life as
a programmer.

Sometimes we can anticipate potential errors. 
For example, what happens when you try to create a Date with an invalid month?

```elixir
Date.new(1998, 122, 21)
```

The module function returns an error tuple `{:error, :invalid_date}`.

For the errors that we expect, Elixir developers established a pattern of using
`:error` and `:ok` tuples.

```elixir
Date.new(1998, 12, 21)
```

Functions that anticipate errors return either
 `{:ok, data}` or `{:error, reason}`

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

```mermaid
flowchart
  Function --> OK
  Function --> Error
  Error["{error: reason}"]
  OK["{ok: data}"]
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

This allows us to call these functions, and then use pattern matching to handle the `:ok` or `:error`
case.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

```mermaid
flowchart
  Caller --- Function
  Caller --> A[ok instructions]
  Caller --> B[error instructions]
  Function --> Output
  Output --- ERROR["{:error, reason}"]
  Output --- OK["{:ok, data}"]
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

The `Date` module expects that we'll sometimes call it with mismatched integers and it handles that
error specifically.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

This enables predictable error handling. We can use `case` to match on the `:error` and `:ok` tuples,
then handle them however is appropriate.

```elixir
case Date.new(1998, 12, 21) do
  {:ok, date} -> date
  {:error, reason} -> reason
end
```

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, trigger the `:error` case by changing `Date.new(1998, 12, 21)` to an invalid
date.

```elixir
case Date.new(1998, 12, 21) do
  {:ok, value} -> value
  {:error, reason} -> reason
end
```

### Your Turn

Create a function `convert_to_12_hour`
which takes in an integer from 1 to 24. It will then return the equivalent time
on a 12 hour clock.

* 1 would become `{:ok, "1am"}`
* 14 would become `{:ok, "2pm"}`
* If the value given is less than 1 return `{:error, :time_too_low}`.
* If the value given is greater than 24 return `{:error, :time_too_high}`

## Unexpected Errors

While we can do our best to predict errors, it's truly impossible to predict them all. Some
errors are not within our control, such as the malfunction of physical hardware, some errors
result out of unexpected complexity and behavior.

Some errors result because of external systems, or malformed data, and some errors are because
we spelled **accelleration** with one **l** instead of two. 🤦‍♂️

Whatever the reason, unpredictable errors happen. Infact, 
Elixir has a philosophy of "Let it crash" which you'll learn more about in future lessons.

There are two main categories of errors. The first is a [RuntimeError](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/1.13.2/RuntimeError.html).
A runtime error occurs while the program is running. That's why it's called a runtime error.

The other is a [CompileError](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/1.13.2/CompileError.html)
. A compile error occurs during compile time. 
What is compile time? Compile time when the Elixir source code that you've written gets converted
into binary machine code instructions for the computer.

Elixir is a **compiled** language, so it's instructions get compiled into binary machine code before being
run. Alternatively, some languages are **interpreted**. Interpreted languages get converted into computer instruction as
they run rather than upfront.

Whenever you encounter an error, Elixir attempts to provide information about what
happened by raising an error.

What does **raise** an error mean? You may have noticed Elixir provides a variety of errors that help you understand what
went wrong in your program. Whenever Elixir encounters an error, it stops the current execution and displays an error.

You can manually raise a **RuntimeError** error with the `raise` keyword.

```elixir
raise "Oh no!"
```

You can also trigger a **CompileError** by writing some invalid Elixir syntax. Because Elixir
is compiled, it's able to pre-determine that the code is invalid before running it.

```elixir
you(cannot(just(write(anything))))
```

You've already been introduced to several other kinds of errors. It's not important
that you remember all of them, but you should try to understand what they mean when you see them.

* **FunctionClauseError**: a function is called with input that doesn't match any clause. i.e `Date.new("", "", "")`
* **ArithmeticError**: when you misuse an arithmetic operator i.e. `1 + ""`
* **TokenMissingError**: when you don't complete an expression i.e. `1 +`

These are all runtime errors that occur under specific conditions.
They help you determine the cause of your error better than a generic **RuntimeError**.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

```mermaid
flowchart LR
RuntimeError --> FunctionClauseError
RuntimeError --> ArithmeticError
RuntimeError --> TokenMissingError
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Try/Rescue

When executing code that could result in an error, you case use `try` and `rescue` to prevent it from crashing
the entire program's execution. The code in the `try` block will run, and if it results in an error,
then the `rescue` block will run. the `rescue` block works like a `case` statement where you can
pattern match on the error from the `try` block.

```elixir
try do
  raise "oh no!"
rescue
  _ -> "that's better"
end
```

In the above example we pattern match using the default case with underscore `_`.
You could instead match on the specific error **RuntimeError**

```elixir
try do
  raise "oh no!"
rescue
  RuntimeError -> "that's better"
end
```

Infact, you have the ability to decide which type of error to `raise`.

```elixir
try do
  raise ArithmeticError, "Math can be hard sometimes"
rescue
  ArithmeticError -> "Fortunately you have support!"
end
```

It's convention in Elixir to use bang `!` in the name of a function that expects to raise an error.
For example, there's an alternative to `Date.new/4` called `Date.new!/4`. Instead of returning an
`:ok` or `:error` tuple it either returns a date, or raises an error.

```elixir
Date.new!(1982, 06, 29)
```

```elixir
Date.new!(11982, 06, 29)
```

### Your Turn

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

In the Elixir cell below, `raise` a **TokenMissingError**

```elixir

```

In the Elixir cell below

* Create a `try`/`rescue` block.
* Cause a **SyntaxError** in the try block.
* Handle the **SyntaxError** in the rescue block and return `"phew!"` .

```elixir

```
