# ExUnit

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, github: "livebook-dev/kino", override: true},
  {:kino_lab, "~> 0.1.0-dev", github: "jonatanklosko/kino_lab"},
  {:vega_lite, "~> 0.1.3"},
  {:benchee, "~> 0.1"},
  {:ecto, "~> 3.7"},
  {:math, "~> 0.7.0"},
  {:faker, "~> 0.17.0"},
  {:utils, path: "utils"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)

## Setup

Ensure you run the `ea` command to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively,
you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## ExUnit

[ExUnit](https://hexdocs.pm/ex_unit/1.13.4/ExUnit.html) is a built-in testing framework for Elixir.

> We test to increase confidence that our software does what it’s
supposed to do. Testing gives us confidence that our code works as expected.
This is true for all kinds of testing, whether for automated tests performed
by a machine or for manual tests performed by a human.
> - Testing Elixir by Andrea Leopardi and Jeffrey Matthias

When you create a new `mix` application, your tests are contained within the `/tests` folder.

```elixir
defmodule HelloWorldTest do
  use ExUnit.Case
  doctest HelloWorld

  test "greets the world" do
    assert HelloWorld.hello() == :world
  end
end
```

[mix test](https://hexdocs.pm/mix/Mix.Tasks.Test.html) runs the tests for a project.

### Your Turn
Open your `hello_world` application. Try running tests with `mix test` from your command line.
All tests should pass.

```
$ mix test

Compiling 1 file (.ex)
Generated hello_world app
..

Finished in 0.01 seconds (0.00s async, 0.01s sync)
1 doctest, 1 test, 0 failures

Randomized with seed 489570
```

### Writing a Unit Test


A **Unit Test** focuses on a single unit of the application. The `HelloWorld.hello/0` function is the **unit** of our
first unit test.

Tests provide [assertions](https://hexdocs.pm/ex_unit/ExUnit.Assertions.html) about how the application is supposed to behave.

We `assert` that the `HelloWorld.hello/0` function should return `:world`.
If we change the `HelloWorld.hello/0` function's behavior, the test will fail.

This test focuses on the input, and output of a function, treating the rest like a black box.

```mermaid
flowchart
  Input -> Output
```

### Your Turn
If we change the output of the function, the test will break.
Try changing the output of the `HelloWorld` module to break the tests. Then undo your change
to make the tests pass again.

```elixir
defmodule HelloWorld do
  def hello do
    "world"
  end
end
```

You should see some similar output.
```
$ mix test

1) doctest HelloWorld.hello/0 (1) (HelloWorldTest)
     test/hello_world_test.exs:3
     Doctest failed
     doctest:
       iex> HelloWorld.hello()
       :world
     code:  HelloWorld.hello() === :world
     left:  "world"
     right: :world
     stacktrace:
       lib/hello_world.ex:11: HelloWorld (module)



  2) test greets the world (HelloWorldTest)
     test/hello_world_test.exs:5
     Assertion with == failed
     code:  assert HelloWorld.hello() == :world
     left:  "world"
     right: :world
     stacktrace:
       test/hello_world_test.exs:6: (test)
```

There are actually two tests that fail. The second is the test in `tests/hello_world_test.ex`.
The first is a doctest, which we will cover later.

## Assertions

Generally tests focus on some assertion about how your application will behave.
When testing, you want to think about what assertions properly verify the behavior of your
application.

We can use any comparison operators in our assertions. It's most common to check if a value is equal using `==`.

```elixir
test "4 is 5" do
  assert 4 == 4
end
```

A test will fail if it's given any falsy value.

```elixir
test "4 is 6" do
  assert 4 == 6
end
```

So long as the result is a truthy or falsy value, we can use any functions, operators, etc.

```elixir
test "4 < 2" do
  assert 4 < 2
end

test "[] is a list" do
  assert is_list([])
end

test "" do
  assert true and true or false
end
```

We have a number of assertions other than `assert`.
For example, if we want a test to fail for a truthy value rather than a false value we can us `refute`.

```elixir
test "empty map %{} is not a list" do
  refute is_list(%{})
end
```

See [Assertions](https://hexdocs.pm/ex_unit/1.13.4/ExUnit.Assertions.html) for the full list of ExUnit assertions.

### Your Turn

Create a new test in `hello_world_test.ex`.

Assert that when the `hello/1` function receives the string `"Peter"` it should
return `"Hello, Peter."`. Implement the code necessary to make this pass.

### Test Cases

So far, we've used **example-based tests** where we test the output of some function given some input.
In the exercise above, you may have written a test like so:

```elixir
test "hello peter" do
  assert HelloWorld.hello("Peter") == "Hello, Peter."
end
```

This is a **test case**. It's important to think about test cases for you unit tests. The more comprehensive
your test cases, the more comprehensive your tests and less likely you are to have unexpected bugs.

Currently, We provided a single example, and the assume that other examples
work similarly. This can lead to issues if we aren't careful.

```mermaid
flowchart
Peter --> H[HelloWorld.hello/1] --> P[Hello, Peter.]
```

For example, the following function in the `HelloWorld` module would make the above test pass.

```elixir
def hello(name) do
  "Hello, Peter."
end
```

We can make the test more comprehensive by adding more cases. For example, the following tests would
be more comprehensive.

```elixir
test "hello peter" do
  assert HelloWorld.hello("Peter") == "Hello, Peter."
end
test "hello mary" do
  assert HelloWorld.hello("Mary") == "Hello, Mary."
end
```

Granted, we could still fake this test, but it's less likely.

```elixir
def hello(name) do
  case name do
    "Peter" -> "Hello, Peter."
    "Mary" -> "Hello, Mary."
end
```

Now we have two different test cases. We test with one name and another name. There are now diminishing returns
to adding similar test cases.

```mermaid
flowchart
  Peter --> H[HelloWorld.hello/1] --> P[Hello, Peter.]
  Mary --> H[HelloWorld.hello/1] --> P[Hello, Mary.]
```

Instead of adding more test cases with different names, we can leverage randomization to make the test even more comprehensive.
Randomization is a powerful testing tool!

```elixir
def random_string do
  # generate a random string
end
test "hello string" do
  name = random_string()
  assert HelloWorld.hello(name) == "Hello, #{name}."
end
```

Essentially, we've created a test case for any string, rather than only two examples.

```mermaid
flowchart
  Peter --> H[HelloWorld.hello/1] --> P[Hello, Peter.]
  Mary --> H[HelloWorld.hello/1] --> P[Hello, Mary.]
  string --> H[HelloWorld.hello/1] --> P[Hello, string.]
```
### Your Turn

Add a new test case to your `HelloWorldTest` suite for
when the `HelloWorld.hello/1` function is called with "Mary".

### Your Turn (Bonus)

Add a new test case to your `HelloWorldTest` suite for
when the `HelloWorld.hello/1` function is called with a random string.
You will need to determine how to generate a random string.

## Edge Cases

Sometimes it's important to include edge case tests.

An edge case refers to a test case that deviates from the **happy path** or desired behavior for
a unit.

For example, if you were testing a payment system, the happy path might be when a customer makes a purchase
and their payment goes through. However, what happens if their credit card is declined? How are you going to handle this
edge case?

To bring it to a more concrete example, what happens if you call `HelloWorld.hello/1` with a non-string value?
What do you want to have happen?

### Your Turn

Write an edge case test for `HelloWorld.hello/1` when it receives a non-string value.

Assert that you will return an error like so:

```elixir
HelloWorld.hello(%{})
{:error, :non_string_value}
```

## Test Naming

Naming tests is important, but also highly subjective. There are some common patterns such
as [Given, When, Then](https://www.agilealliance.org/glossary/gwt/#q=~(infinite~false~filters~(postType~(~'page~'post~'aa_book~'aa_event_session~'aa_experience_report~'aa_glossary~'aa_research_paper~'aa_video)~tags~(~'given*20when*20then))~searchTerm~'~sort~false~sortDirection~'asc~page~1)).

In general, a good test name should capture:
1. the system under test (the HelloWorld.hello/1 function)
2. the state under test (the input to the function)
3. the desired behavior (return "Hello, name")

All of the following would capture the desired information.

```elixir
test "Given a string, when calling hello/1 with the string, it returns Hello, string."
test "hello/1 _ with a random_string _ returns Hello, random_string."
```

Some schools of thought believe the desired behavior should be contained within the test, rather than the test name.
The reason being it prevents the test name from becoming outdated if the desired behavior changes.

So the following test name could be appropriate:

```elixir
test "hello/1 with a random_string"
```

Rather than dogmatically recommend a pattern, we'll say that a good test name makes it easier to understand
the goal of the test. How you do this is up to you, and many teams develop their own standards.

## Describe

We can group tests into a `describe` block. A describe block organizes tests by some commonality. For example,
we might group all tests for a single function together.

```elixir
describe "hello/1" do
  test "hello Peter" do
    # test
  end
  test "hello Mary" do
    # test
  end
  test "hello String" do
    # test
  end
end
```

### Your Turn

Organize your existing `HelloWorld.hello/1` tests under a single describe block.

## Setup

Tests often require some initial setup of data. For example, when we generate a random string
for `HelloWorld.hello/1`, this is part of the setup phase.

## Setup
## Testing Behavior
## Tags