# Functions

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, github: "livebook-dev/kino", override: true},
  {:kino_lab, "~> 0.1.0-dev", github: "jonatanklosko/kino_lab"},
  {:vega_lite, "~> 0.1.3"},
  {:benchee, "~> 0.1"},
  {:ecto, "~> 3.7"},
  {:math, "~> 0.7.0"},
  {:faker, "~> 0.17.0"},
  {:utils, path: "utils"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)

## Setup

Ensure you run the `ea` command to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively,
you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Functions

Elixir is a functional programming language. So you can imagine that functions must be important. But what is a function?

### Input and Output (IO)

A function is a set of repeatable instructions. A function accepts some **input**, and returns
some **output**.

```mermaid
  flowchart LR
    Input --> Output
```

### Black Box

How the function converts some input to some output is often referred to as a **black box**.
It's a black box because you don't need to know (or can't know) the details of how it works.

```mermaid
  flowchart LR
    Input --> B[Black Box] --> Output
```

### Creating a Function

Let's create a function called `double` which will take in a number and
double its value.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  A[2] --> B[double] --> C[4]
```

Now, let's create our first function. At first, it's going to do nothing.
A function must have an output. We can return `nil` for now.

```elixir
double = fn -> nil end
```

You may see some weird-looking output like `#Function<45.65746770/0 in :erl_eval.expr/5>`.
Don't worry too much about that. It's how Elixir represents a function internally.

### Parts of a Function

Let's break down what we did above.

1. `double` is a variable name. Often you'll refer to it as the **function name**. 
   It can be any valid variable name.

2. We bind `double` to an **anonymous function**.
   The anonymous function is everything from the `fn` to the `end`.

   ```mermaid
   flowchart LR
    A[function name] --> B[=]
    B --> C[anonymous function]
   ```

3. Elixir uses the `fn` keyword to define a function.

4. The next value `->` separates the **function head** and the **function body**.

5. The **function head** describes the input of the function. In this example, it's empty.

6. The **function body** contains the function's implementation or **black box** . In this example, it returns `nil`.

7. Elixir uses the `end` keyword to stop creating a function.

<!--  -->

```mermaid
flowchart LR
   direction LR
   a[function name] --> B
   b[function head] --> A
   b[function head] --> B
   c[function body] --> C
   subgraph a[Breaking Down A Function]
      direction LR
      A[fn] ---- B
      B[->] --- C
      C[nil] --- D
      D[end]
   end
```

### Calling a Function

Our `double` function doesn't do much at this point, but let's see the **output** that it returns.

We use the `.()` syntax in Elixir to get the function's output. We often say we are **executing** or **calling** a function.

```elixir
double.()
```

`double` should return `nil` because that's all we've told it to do so far. However, we want
it to multiply a number by `2`.

To do that, we need to make the function accept some input. To do this,
we define a **parameter** in the function like so.

```elixir
double = fn parameter -> nil end
```

You'll notice a warning above. That's because Elixir is smart and lets us know that we've
created a parameter, but we're not using it.

In Elixir, you can ignore this warning for unused variables by starting them with an underscore `_`

```elixir
double = fn _parameter -> nil end
```

No more warning 😀 But we actually want to use that parameter, so let's 
modify the function to return the parameter instead.

```elixir
double = fn parameter -> parameter end
```

The parameter is named `parameter` here for the sake of example. But it works a lot like a variable, 
and it can be named any valid variable name.

Let's rename it to `number` to clarify that we expect the input to be a number.

```elixir
double = fn number -> number end
```

Now the function head takes in a value. We have to pass it
an **argument** when we call it. The argument will be bound to the parameter when the function 
executes. We'll give it the integer `2`.

```elixir
double.(2)
```

Notice that if you try to call the function without an argument, it fails because
it expects an argument. Not all languages do that, but Elixir is pretty smart 😎

```elixir
double.()
```

Great, now all that's left is to multiply the parameter by `2`. You should be familiar with 
this from the previous sections.

```elixir
double = fn number -> number * 2 end
```

And you can use it to double any number.

```elixir
double.(10)
```

```elixir
double.(11)
```

```elixir
double.(10 ** 2 - 1)
```

Under the hood, when the function runs, the parameter is bound to the argument's value.

Let's break down how a function executes step by step.

```elixir
Utils.slide(:functions)
```

As expected, `double.(3)` returns `6`.

```elixir
double.(3)
```

### Implied Return Values

Some languages require explicit return values.

However, in Elixir the output of a function is always the last line.

For example, notice that the return value below is `first` + `second`, which equals `3`.

```elixir
multiline_function = fn ->
  first = 1
  second = 2
  first + second
end

multiline_function.()
```

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, create a function `is_even?` that checks if an integer is even or not.
The function should return `true` if the integer is even and `false` if the integer is odd.

```elixir

```

## Multi-Parameter Functions

Functions can accept multiple inputs. Separate parameters with commas `,` to create a multi-parameter function.

```elixir
sum3 = fn param1, param2, param3 -> param1 + param2 + param3 end

sum3.(2, 3, 4)
```

Keep in mind that the first argument will be the value of the first parameter, and the second argument
will be the value of the second parameter. You can repeat this with as many parameters as you want!

```elixir
to_list = fn a, b, c, d, e -> [a, b, c, d, e] end

to_list.(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
```

But usually, you want to avoid having too many parameters because it makes your function hard
to understand.

A parameter can be bound to any valid data type, so you could instead use an associative data
structure like a map or keyword list.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Function Arity

The number of parameters your function accepts is called the **arity** of the function.

A function with no parameters has an arity of zero. A function with one parameter has
an arity of one, and so on.

You refer to the function as `function_name/arity` thus a function named `add_two` with two parameters
is called `add_two/2`.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below create a multi-parameter function `calculate_force/2`.
`calculate_force/2` should take in an integer `mass` parameter and an integer `acceleration` parameter.

The function should calculate force by returning `mass * force`.

```elixir

```

## Shorthand Syntax

Anonymous functions can be defined using a shorthand syntax. It is only an alternative and shorter
version to define a function. You will sometimes see shorthand syntax, so it's helpful to understand it.
However, it should not be over-used. Otherwise, your program may be less clear.

You can still bind the anonymous function to a variable with the shorthand syntax.
However, you define the function with `&()` and put the function body between the brackets.

Here's the same `double` function using short-hand syntax.

```elixir
double = &(&1 * 2)
double.(5)
```

`&1` means the first parameter. If the function had more parameters, you could access them with `&2`, `&3`, and so on.

```elixir
add_two = &(&1 + &2)
add_two.(2, 3)
```

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, convert your `calculate_force/2` function from earlier into short-hand syntax.

```elixir

```

## First-class Functions

Functions in Elixir are [first-class citizens](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-class_citizen).

For our purposes, this means we can bind functions to variables, store them in other data types, pass them as arguments to other functions.

If a function takes in another function as a parameter, it's called a **higher-order function**.

For example, we could make a function named `call_twice`, which calls a function on a value twice.

```elixir
call_twice = fn function, parameter -> function.(function.(parameter)) end
```

We'll use our `double` function and create a quadruple result.

```elixir
double = fn number -> number * 2 end

call_twice.(double, 3)
```

We don't need to bind the passed function to a variable first. We can pass 
in the anonymous function directly.

```elixir
call_twice.(fn number -> number * 2 end, 5)
```

Whenever you pass a function into a higher-order function with the 
expectation that the higher-order function is going to call it, the passed function is
referred to as a **callback function**.

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below,

* Create a higher order function `is_not?/2` which takes in a
  **callback function** and a value. It should then call the function on the value
  and use the `not` operator to flip the value.
* Call `is_not?/2` with the`is_even?/1` function from earlier and an integer to check if a number is odd.

```elixir

```
