# Maps

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)

## Maps

Maps are another type of associative data structure. In fact maps are the common go-to for a key-value
data structure. You can create a map using `%{}`. Similar to keyword lists they can have atoms as keys and then any value.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
%{key: "value"}
```

However, unlike keyword lists, keys must be unique; otherwise they will be overwritten.
Elixir is very helpful and provides a warning to let us know we're overriding a duplicate key.

```elixir
%{duplicate_key: "value1", duplicate_key: "value2"}
```

Unlike keyword lists, maps do not guarantee key order, which is why you'll notice the returned value of the map below
does not have the same order as the map created.

```elixir
%{one: "one", two: "two", three: "three"}
```

Unlike keyword lists, maps can have any values as the key. Commonly you will see atom-key maps

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
%{atom_key: "value"}
```

And also string-key maps.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
%{"string key" => "value"}
```

However, the key to a map could be anything! even another map! You will need to use the `=>` symbol
though, not a colon `:`. `=>` is an equals sign `=` and a greater than symbol `>`.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
%{[1,2,3] => "value"}
%{%{example: "my_example"} => "value"}
%{1 => "value"}
```

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, create a map with string keys and any value.

```elixir

```

Create a map with atom keys and any value.

```elixir

```

Create a map with a non-string or atom key and any value.

```elixir

```

## Manipulating Maps

Unlike the other data types, there aren't specific map operators. To manipulate maps we
use a different tool called the **Map** module, which you will learn more about in a future lesson.

For now, it's enough to know that you can access values in an atom-key map using a few different methods.

### Accessing Map Values.

You can retrieve values in a map using **map.key** notation like so.

```elixir
map = %{example_key: "value"}

map.example_key
```

With **map.key** notation, your program will throw an error if your map doesn't have the expected value.

```elixir
map = %{example_key: "value"}
map.non_existing_key
```

You can also use **map[key]** syntax to access values in a map.

```elixir
map = %{"test" => "value"}
map["test"]
```

```elixir
map = %{1 => "value"}
map[1]
```

```elixir
map = %{%{} => "value"}
map[%{}]
```

Unlike **map.key** notation, **map[key]** syntax will return `nil` rather
than throwing an error if the key is not defined.

```elixir
map = %{}
map["non_existing_key"]
```

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, retrieve the value of `:example` using both **map[key]** and **map.key** notation.

```elixir
%{example: "value"}
```

Create a map `%{hello: "world"}` and bind it to a variable `map`. Use **map.key** notation
to access the `:hello` key. The cell should output `"world"`

```elixir

```

Create a map `%{"one" =>  1}` and bind it to a variable `map`. Use **map[key]** syntax to access
the key `"one"`. It should return `1`.

```elixir

```

### Updating Maps

You can update values in a map using `%{initial_map | updated_values}` syntax like so.

```elixir
initial = %{key: "value"}

%{initial | key: "new value"}
```

Elixir does not allow you to mutate values. That means
the variable `initial` is still `%{key: "value"}`

```elixir
initial
```

You can instead store a new variable for the updated map.

```elixir
updated = %{initial | key: "new value"}
```

Or rebind the existing `initial` variable.

```elixir
initial = %{initial | key: "new value"}
```

```elixir
initial
```
