# Persistence

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"},
  {:tested_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/tested_cell"},
  {:utils, path: "#{__DIR__}/../utils"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Setup

Ensure you type the `ea` keyboard shortcut to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Overview

This lesson serves as a brief primer on the many topics related to persistence. You will have the opportunity
to practice these concepts throughout the course and develop a deeper knowledge.

## Persistence

To persist means to continue to exist.

We often want to store information. For example, we might store some
user information, or the particular state of the application.

For example, it would be unpleasant if you couldn't save your emails.

Persistence is necessary for creating almost every application, though some
purposely avoid persistence. Snapchat, for example, intentionally avoids persisting messages.

### Short Term Persistence Vs. Long Term Persistence

We have a variety of methods to achieve persistence. We also have short term persistence and long term
persistence.

Short-term persistence is usually in memory. We might have some value that persists during the runtime of our program,
but as soon as the program ends, that value is lost.

For example, we can bind a variable in memory then use it in other Elixir cells.

```elixir
i = 4
```

```elixir
i + 2
```

But when the program ends and you turn off your computer and open a different livebook file, `i` no longer exists.

However, the `.livemd` file that powers this notebook persists. You could
That's because these notebooks use long-term persistence with a file system.
write some code in the following Elixir cell, and it will still be there the next time you open this lesson.

```elixir

```

## State

Simple variable values are stored in memory, but they have no state.

The variable `i` never changes value during the execution of the program. We can rebind it in a particular scope,
but we're not mutating the value, so it's not truly a persisting state, it's more like binding a new variable value with the same name.

```elixir
i = 4
```

When talking about short-term persistence, we generally think in terms of state.

For example, take a road light.

<!-- livebook:{"attrs":{"source":"Kino.animate(500, 0, fn i ->\n  md = Kino.Markdown.new(~s(\n<div style=\\\"display: flex; justify-content: center; width: 100%;\\\">\n  <div style=\\\"height: 50px; width: 50px; margin: 10px; background-color: #{(i === 0 && \"green\") || \"black\"}; border-radius: 50%;\\\"></div>\n  <div style=\\\"height: 50px; width: 50px; margin: 10px; background-color: #{(i === 1 && \"yellow\") || \"black\"}; border-radius: 50%;\\\"></div>\n  <div style=\\\"height: 50px; width: 50px; margin: 10px; background-color: #{(i === 2 && \"red\") || \"black\"}; border-radius: 50%;\\\"></div>\n</div>\n  ))\n  {:cont, md, rem(i + 1, 3)}\nend)","title":"Animation Source (Hidden: Teachers Only)"},"kind":"Elixir.HiddenCell","livebook_object":"smart_cell"} -->

```elixir
Kino.animate(500, 0, fn i ->
  md = Kino.Markdown.new(~s(
<div style=\"display: flex; justify-content: center; width: 100%;\">
  <div style=\"height: 50px; width: 50px; margin: 10px; background-color: #{(i === 0 && "green") || "black"}; border-radius: 50%;\"></div>
  <div style=\"height: 50px; width: 50px; margin: 10px; background-color: #{(i === 1 && "yellow") || "black"}; border-radius: 50%;\"></div>
  <div style=\"height: 50px; width: 50px; margin: 10px; background-color: #{(i === 2 && "red") || "black"}; border-radius: 50%;\"></div>
</div>
  ))
  {:cont, md, rem(i + 1, 3)}
end)
```

It cycles from <span style="color: green;">green</span> to <span style="color: yellow;">yellow</span> to <span style="color: red;">red</span>

In other words, it has some state of the light. This state changes and the lights use that state to determine if
they should be on or off.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

```mermaid
stateDiagram
  [*] --> Green
  Green --> Yellow
  Yellow --> Red
  Red --> Green
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

Now that we have persistent data, we're going to encounter issues with the state of our
program. Let's say we're storing some state.

```mermaid
stateDiagram
    state "Initial State" as init
    [*] --> init
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

Then some other operation changes the state. So now, when we read the state, we receive a different value.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant R as External
    participant S as State
    S->>S: Init State
    R->>S: Get State
    S->>R: Return State (Init State)
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

State introduces an entire class of bugs. What if we set the state at the wrong time? or read the state too fast or slow?

For example, you might set the state, then attempt to retrieve the state. However, the internal
state hasn't finished updating, so you retrieve the unchanged state rather than the new state you
were expecting.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant R as External
    participant S as State
    S->>S: Init State
    R->>S: Set State
    R->>S: Get State
    S->>R: Return State (Init State)
    S->>S: Second State
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Have You Tried Turning It Off and On Again?

Have you noticed you can fix most technology issues by turning the device off and on again?

That's because most
bugs occur when the program gets into a bad state that it can't get out of.
You reset the state and solve the issue by turning it off and on again.

### Your Turn

Let's get practical. Here we have some [File](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/File.html) module functions that create files on your computer.
You're going to learn more about the [File](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/File.html) module in a future lesson. For now, trust that `write/2` creates a file with
some content, and `read/1` reads that content.

First, we create a file. You can think of this file as storing the first state.

```elixir
File.write("data/some_file", "first")
```

Then we read that file. We return the first state.

```elixir
File.read("data/some_file")
```

Uncomment this [File.write/1](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/File.html#write/1) line below and evaluate the Elixir cell.

Notice that the return value of `File.read("data/some_file")` has changed. The same is true if
you re-evaluate the Elixir cell above.

```elixir
# File.write("data/some_file", "second")
File.read("data/some_file")
```

## File System Based Persistence

We can use a file system to persist information. For example, this entire course is saved in a series of `.livemd` files.

When working on real-world projects, it's not recommended to use a file system for persisting long-term information unless you are
hacking together a small personal project, or know what you are doing.

That's because many issues arise with a file system that different tools could better handle.

Of course, there are plenty of times to use files. Most often, you'll read information from them. For example, your company might
be working on an email newsletter. Your sales team has entered a list of emails into an excel spreadsheet document.

If there's only a handful of emails, you might manually copy paste these into your program, but if there are thousands, you'll have to
write some code to convert them into data that you can persist in your program.

## DBMS (Database Management System)

Generally speaking, we use a **Database** to store long-term information in a program. The Database is a separate layer in the program that
handles the complexity of storing information.

```mermaid
flowchart
    Program --> Database --> P[Persisted Data]
```

There are several different types of databases, here's a great primer by Linux Academy.

```elixir
YouTube.new("https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tk1t3WKK-ZY")
```

This course will focus on **RDBMS** (Relational Database Management Systems).
We'll provide a brief primer highlighting the core concepts you'll need to learn to work with DataBases in Elixir.
In later lessons, you'll get hands-on experience to reinforce this overview.

Elixir applications generally default to using [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
which is an open-source relational database.

```mermaid
flowchart
Program --> PostgreSQL --> P[Persisted Data]
```

Relational databases store data as a series of tables with relationships to each other.

Think of a table as a spreadsheet with rows and columns. For example, when building out a photo app,
we might have a table of **users** and a table of **photos**. Each tables stores relevant information for
the user or photo.

```elixir
Utils.table(:users_and_photos)
```

```mermaid
flowchart
P[PostgreSQL]
U[Users]
PH[Photos]
P --> U
P --> PH
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

There is a relationship between the data because some photos may belong to a user.
Typically, the photo will store a **foreign key** which links to some user on the users table.

The foreign key is typically the id of the entry on another table.

```mermaid
flowchart
P[PostgreSQL]
U[Users]
PH[Photos]
PH1[Picture Of The Daily Bugle]
U1[Peter Parker]

P --> U --> U1
P --> PH --> PH1 --foreign_key--> U1
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

You can imagine those tables stored in the Database like so.

```elixir
Utils.table(:user_photo_foreign_key)
```

### SQL (Structured Query Language)

We can then query the Database for information using **SQL**. SQL
is a **Structured Query Language** specifically for working with SQL based databases.
We use SQL to communicate with PostgreSQL.

```mermaid
flowchart
E[Elixir Program] --> SQL --> PostgreSQL --> P[Persisted Data]
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

For a primer on SQL, check out Danielle Thé's excellent video.

```elixir
YouTube.new("https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=27axs9dO7AE")
```

### Your Turn

Ensure you have PostgreSQL installed and run `psql` to start your local Database. Enter the following to create a users table, insert a user, and retrieve all users.

```sql
CREATE TABLE users (
    name varChar(255) NOT NULL
);

INSERT INTO users ('Peter Parker');

SELECT * from users;
```

## Ecto

[Ecto](https://hexdocs.pm/ecto/Ecto.html) is a database library for Elixir.
It comes with Phoenix, the framework for web development in Elixir.

Rather than deal directly with SQL in Elixir we generally use Ecto to interact with SQL databases.

```mermaid
flowchart
E[Elixir Program] --> Ecto --> SQL --> PostgreSQL --> P[Persisted Data]
```

You will have the opportunity to learn more about Ecto and get hands-on experience with databases throughout this course.

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the project folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.

```
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish persistence section"
```
