# Strings

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Setup

Ensure you type the `ea` keyboard shortcut to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Strings

A string is any sequence of characters contained within two double quotes `""`.
A character is any single number, letter, or symbol.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
"T" # letters
"t" # letters
"1" # numbers
"1.2" # numbers
"&" # symbols
"_" # symbols
```

You can visualize a string as characters joined together by strings.
Strings can be a single character, no characters, or many characters!

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  S --- T --- R --- I --- N --- G
```

Strings can contain single quotes and other symbols such as `!@#$%^&*()_+-=';:` and more.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
"!@#$%^&*()_+-=';:"
```

They are useful for representing all kinds of information as text.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, create a string `"Hello, world!"`. This is a rite of passage for every
programmer.

```elixir

```

## String Operators

String operators allow us to manipulate strings.

The `<>` operator joins two strings together. Joining strings together is called **string concatenation**.

```elixir
"hello, " <> "world."
```

Only strings can be concatenated together using the `<>` operator. You'll notice concatenating `1` causes an error `expected binary argument in <> operator but got 1`
This error occurs because we're asking the computer to concatenate a string with an integer.

```elixir
"hello" <> 1
```

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, use string concatenation to join `"Hi "` and the name of one
of your classmates.

So `"Peter"` would be come `"Hi Peter."`.

Replace `nil` with your answer.

<details style="background-color: lightgreen; padding: 1rem; margin: 1rem 0;">
<summary>Example solution</summary>

```elixir
"Hi " <> "Peter."
```

</details>

```elixir

```

### String Interpolation

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

Using `#{}`, We can also **interpolate** values in strings. Essentially, this means we can evaluate code inside of
a string. The code you want to interpolate inside of the string
goes between the curly braces `{}`.

So we can evaluate `4 + 4`, which equals `8` inside a string.

```elixir
"I have #{4 + 4} apples."
```

String interpolation is often useful when your string has many computed values or tricky punctuation.
Otherwise, it's easy to make mistakes.

Notice that there's a grammar mistake below that could easily be missed when using string concatenation.

```elixir
"I have" <> "8" <> "apples"
```

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, use **string interpolation** to say `I have #{X - 1} classmates.`. Where X is the number of people in your cohort including yourself.

<details style="background-color: lightgreen; padding: 1rem; margin: 1rem 0;">
<summary>Example solution</summary>

```elixir
"I have #{1 - 1} classmates."
```

</details>

```elixir
answer = nil
```

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-strings
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish strings section"
$ git push origin exercise-strings
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.

## Up Next

| Previous                                   | Next                                   |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------: |
| [Arithmetic](../reading/arithmetic.livemd) | [Booleans](../reading/booleans.livemd) |
