# Tuples

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0", override: true},
  {:youtube, github: "brooklinjazz/youtube"},
  {:hidden_cell, github: "brooklinjazz/hidden_cell"}
])
```

## Navigation

[Return Home](../start.livemd)<span style="padding: 0 30px"></span>
[Report An Issue](https://github.com/DockYard-Academy/beta_curriculum/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=issue.md&title=)

## Setup

Ensure you type the `ea` keyboard shortcut to evaluate all Elixir cells before starting. Alternatively, you can evaluate the Elixir cells as you read.

## Tuples

Tuples are fixed size containers for multiple elements.
Like lists they can contain any data type.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
{}
{7}
{1, 2, 3}
{"example"}
{1, "pizza", 3, :success, false}
```

They are often used when you know the number of desired elements and their type.
For example, it's common in Elixir to use tuples to represent failure or success cases
with the associated error message or success value.

<!-- livebook:{"force_markdown":true} -->

```elixir
{:success, "Well done!"}
{:error, "Too bad!"}
```

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Your Turn

In the Elixir cell below, create a tuple with `:ok` as the first element, and `"got it!"` as
the second element.

<details style="background-color: lightgreen; padding: 1rem; margin: 1rem 0;">
<summary>Example solution</summary>

```elixir
{:ok, "got it!"}
```

</details>

```elixir

```

## Pattern Matching

In Elixir, the `=` sign is the match operator. In other programming languages, you may call it the assignment operator.

Elixir calls `=` the match operator because it uses pattern matching to bind variables.

What is pattern matching? Well rather than simply assigning values to variables, Elixir allows
you to bind variables on the left-hand side of the `=`. So long as it matches the same shape of the right hand side of the `=`.

For example, the following expression is the most "strict" match possible. Both sides are exactly equal.

```elixir
{1, 2, 3} = {1, 2, 3}
```

The `=` operator attempts to coerce the left side value to match the right side value, so when we write the following expression, we bind `my_tuple` to `{1, 2, 3}` in order to make the right and the left side match.

The coercion to match is less obvious with a simple variable name, because it's like a blank canvas, it can match any value.

```elixir
my_tuple = {1, 2, 3}
```

However, we can bind other values inside of a container data type, so the left and right side still match.

```elixir
{one, two, three} = {1, 2, 3}
```

Now we can use these bound variables `one`, `two`, and `three` in our program.

```elixir
one
```

```elixir
two
```

```elixir
three
```

So long as the expression on the left side of match operator `=` matches the pattern of the right side, you can bind variables to values.

The tuple with variables bound on the left side must have the same number of elements as the tuple on the right side, otherwise we'll cause a [MatchError](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/MatchError.html).

```elixir
{one, two} = {1, 2, 3}
```

If we want to bind some of the variables in a tuple, and ignore others, we can use an `_` to ignore any variables.

```elixir
{one, _two, three} = {1, 2, 3}
```

You can pattern match with any kind of data. So long as the left side matches the right side. We'll cover pattern matching with other data structures in later reading material.

<!-- livebook:{"break_markdown":true} -->

### Your Turn

Use pattern matching to bind `"jewel"` to a variable called `jewel`.
Replace `jewel` with your answer.

<details style="background-color: lightgreen; padding: 1rem; margin: 1rem 0;">
<summary>Example solution</summary>

```elixir
{_gold, _treasure, jewel} = {"gold", "treasure", "jewel"}
jewel
```

</details>

```elixir
{"gold", "treasure", "jewel"}
```

## Further Reading

Consider the following resource(s) to deepen your understanding of the topic.

* [Elixir Lang: Tuples](https://elixir-lang.org/getting-started/basic-types.html#tuples)
* [Exercism: Tuples](https://exercism.org/tracks/elixir/concepts/tuples)
* [Elixir Schools: Tuples](https://elixirschool.com/en/lessons/basics/collections#tuples-4)
* [HexDocs: Tuple](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Tuple.html)

## Commit Your Progress

Run the following in your command line from the curriculum folder to track and save your progress in a Git commit.
Ensure that you do not already have undesired or unrelated changes by running `git status` or by checking the source control tab in Visual Studio Code.

```
$ git checkout main
$ git checkout -b exercise-tuples
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "finish tuples section"
$ git push origin exercise-tuples
```

Create a pull request to your forked `main` branch. Please do not create a pull request to the DockYard Academy repository as this will spam our PR tracker.

**DockYard Academy Students Only:**

Notify your teacher by including `@BrooklinJazz` in your PR description to get feedback.

If you are interested in joining the next academy cohort, [sign up here](https://academy.dockyard.com/) to receive more news when it is available.

## Up Next

| Previous                         | Next                             |
| -------------------------------- | -------------------------------: |
| [Atoms](../reading/atoms.livemd) | [Lists](../reading/lists.livemd) |
